Testing that touch emulation affects certain media queries
window.matchMedia('(pointer: none)').matches : false
window.matchMedia('(pointer: none)').matches applied: false
window.matchMedia('(pointer: coarse)').matches : true
window.matchMedia('(pointer: coarse)').matches applied: true
window.matchMedia('(pointer: fine)').matches : false
window.matchMedia('(pointer: fine)').matches applied: false
window.matchMedia('(any-pointer: none)').matches : false
window.matchMedia('(any-pointer: none)').matches applied: false
window.matchMedia('(any-pointer: coarse)').matches : true
window.matchMedia('(any-pointer: coarse)').matches applied: true
window.matchMedia('(any-pointer: fine)').matches : false
window.matchMedia('(any-pointer: fine)').matches applied: false
window.matchMedia('(hover: none)').matches : true
window.matchMedia('(hover: none)').matches applied: true
window.matchMedia('(hover: hover)').matches : false
window.matchMedia('(hover: hover)').matches applied: false
window.matchMedia('(any-hover: none)').matches : true
window.matchMedia('(any-hover: none)').matches applied: true
window.matchMedia('(any-hover: hover)').matches : false
window.matchMedia('(any-hover: hover)').matches applied: false

