Project: /youtube/cobalt/_project.yaml
Book: /youtube/cobalt/_book.yaml

# Cobalt Update Framework

## Background

The updatability of Cobalt on the field devices enables the deployment of new
features and crucial bug fixes in a timely manner. It significantly reduces the
amount of work on partnersâ€™ shoulders to update to a newer version of Cobalt.
This document introduces how Cobalt updates itself and what the system is like
that supports the update of Cobalt. Note that the Cobalt Update Framework is
currently used only for Evergreen configurations.

## Goal

*   Enable Cobalt to automatically update itself periodically
*   Build a framework that hosts and serves the updates reliably

## Overview

![Cobalt Update Overview](resources/cobalt_update_overview.png)

The Cobalt Updater is a module of Cobalt. It is initiated as Cobalt starts. It
periodically sends requests to Google Update server to check for updates. If an
update is available, the Update server responds with a downloadable link of the
update package to the Updater. Then the Updater connects to the link, which is
hosted on Google Downloads server, to download the update package. If an update
is not available, the Updater server responds to indicate no update. Then the
Updater waits until the next scheduled time to check for updates again.

## Implementation

### Google Update

![Cobalt Update Interaction](resources/cobalt_update_interaction.png)

Google Update is an update service that manages updates for Google products
serving billions of users worldwide. We set up Cobalt updates on Google Update
in a way that each type of device gets a unique update link (URL). The device
type is identified by [Starboard
ABI](../starboard_abi.md)
(SABI) string. For instance, Raspberry Pi 2 and Linux desktop are two different
types of devices. They are identified by two different SABI strings, and get two
different update URLs on Google Update. The request sent by the Cobalt updater
to Google Update  contains a SABI string. Google Update finds the suitable
update link that matches the SABI string from the request, and responds to the
Cobalt updater.

Google Update allows the setup of multiple channels. We set up different
channels for internal testing, partner testing, production and developers.

Google Update also allows staged rollout and rollback when things go wrong. In
the case where a problem is detected that requires rollback or fixes, Google
will work with the partner to find a path to resolution.

### Google Downloads

Google Downloads is a download hosting service for official Google content. We
generate Cobalt update packages for various types of devices, and upload the
packages to Google Downloads. Then the links to the packages on Google Downloads
are served on Google Update.

### Cobalt Updater

The updater checks for updates on Google Downloads, then downloads the update
package if available. After the download is complete, the updater verifies the
downloaded package, then unpack the package to a designated installation
location. The updater runs update checks following a predefined schedule: the
first check happens after Cobalt starts; the second check runs in a randomized
number of hours between 1 and 24 hours; the following checks run every 24 hours.

### Update flow

![Cobalt Update Flow](resources/cobalt_update_flow.png)

Above is a chart of the workflow of a complete update cycle. It shows how the
Updater operates step by step and how it interacts with the Installation Manager
and the Elf Loader[^1].

The Installation Manager maintains the installation slots and provides a proper
slot to the Updater. During the update and installation process, the
Installation Manager keeps track of the status and collects any installation
error. After the installation is completed, the Installation Manager marks the
installation as pending, so that next time Cobalt starts, the Elf Loader loads
the new installation and the update is complete. If the target platform supports
app exits/suspends on user exiting, Cobalt will exit when an installation is
pending, so that the new update will be picked up on the next start; otherwise,
Cobalt is not able to exit by itself, then a manual termination of the app is
required to pick up the update on restart.

## FAQ

### What happens if an urgent problem is found that requires a rollback or update?

In the case where a problem is detected that requires rollback or fixes, Google
will work with the partner to find a path to resolution.

<!-- Footnotes themselves at the bottom. -->
## Footnotes

[^1]: Elf loader - A portable loader that loads the Cobalt binary and resolves
     symbols with Starboard API when Cobalt starts up in Evergreen mode.
