Project: /youtube/cobalt/_project.yaml
Book: /youtube/cobalt/_book.yaml

# Starboard Module Reference: `configuration.h`

Provides a description of the current platform in lurid detail so that common
code never needs to actually know what the current operating system and
architecture are.

It is both very pragmatic and canonical in that if any application code finds
itself needing to make a platform decision, it should always define a Starboard
Configuration feature instead. This implies the continued existence of very
narrowly-defined configuration features, but it retains porting control in
Starboard.

## Macros

### SB_ALIGNAS(byte_alignment)

Specifies the alignment for a class, struct, union, enum, class/struct field, or
stack variable.

### SB_ALIGNOF(type)

Returns the alignment required for any instance of the type indicated by `type`.

### SB_ARRAY_SIZE(array)

A constant expression that evaluates to the size_t size of a statically-sized
array.

### SB_ARRAY_SIZE_INT(array)

A constant expression that evaluates to the int size of a statically-sized
array.

### SB_CAN(SB_FEATURE)

Determines a compile-time capability of the system.

### SB_COMPILE_ASSERT(expr, msg)

Will cause a compiler error with `msg` if `expr` is false. `msg` must be a valid
identifier, and must be a unique type in the scope of the declaration.

### SB_DEPRECATED(FUNC)

SB_DEPRECATED(int Foo(int bar)); Annotates the function as deprecated, which
will trigger a compiler warning when referenced.

### SB_DEPRECATED_EXTERNAL(FUNC)

SB_DEPRECATED_EXTERNAL(...) annotates the function as deprecated for external
clients, but not deprecated for starboard.

### SB_EXPERIMENTAL_API_VERSION

The API version that is currently open for changes, and therefore is not stable
or frozen. Production-oriented ports should avoid declaring that they implement
the experimental Starboard API version.

### SB_FUNCTION

Whether we use **PRETTY_FUNCTION** PRETTY_FUNCTION or **FUNCTION** FUNCTION for
logging.

### SB_HAS(SB_FEATURE)

Determines at compile-time whether this platform has a standard feature or
header available.

### SB_HAS_64_BIT_ATOMICS

Whether the current platform has 64-bit atomic operations.

### SB_HAS_GLES2

Specifies whether this platform has a performant OpenGL ES 2 implementation,
which allows client applications to use GL rendering paths. Derived from the gyp
variable `gl_type` gl_type which indicates what kind of GL implementation is
available.

### SB_HAS_QUIRK(SB_FEATURE)

Determines at compile-time whether this platform has a quirk.

### SB_INT64_C(x)

Declare numeric literals of signed 64-bit type.

### SB_IS(SB_FEATURE)

Determines at compile-time an inherent aspect of this platform.

### SB_LIKELY(x)

Macro for hinting that an expression is likely to be true.

### SB_MAXIMUM_API_VERSION

The maximum API version allowed by this version of the Starboard headers,
inclusive.

### SB_MINIMUM_API_VERSION

The minimum API version allowed by this version of the Starboard headers,
inclusive.

### SB_NORETURN

Macro to annotate a function as noreturn, which signals to the compiler that the
function cannot return.

### SB_OVERRIDE

Declares a function as overriding a virtual function on compilers that support
it.

### SB_PREFERRED_RGBA_BYTE_ORDER_RGBA

An enumeration of values for the kSbPreferredByteOrder configuration variable.
Setting this up properly means avoiding slow color swizzles when passing pixel
data from one library to another. Note that these definitions are in byte-order
and so are endianness-independent.

### SB_PRINTF_FORMAT(format_param, dots_param)

Tells the compiler a function is using a printf-style format string.
`format_param` is the one-based index of the format string parameter;
`dots_param` is the one-based index of the "..." parameter. For v*printf
functions (which take a va_list), pass 0 for dots_param. (This is undocumented
but matches what the system C headers do.) (Partially taken from
base/compiler_specific.h)

### SB_RESTRICT

Include the platform-specific configuration. This macro is set by GN in
starboard/build/config/BUILD.gn and passed in on the command line for all
targets and all configurations.Makes a pointer-typed parameter restricted so
that the compiler can make certain optimizations because it knows the pointers
are unique.

### SB_SIZE_OF(DATATYPE)

Determines at compile-time the size of a data type, or 0 if the data type that
was specified was invalid.

### SB_STRINGIFY(x)

Standard CPP trick to stringify an evaluated macro definition.

### SB_UINT64_C(x)

Declare numeric literals of unsigned 64-bit type.

### SB_UNLIKELY(x)

Macro for hinting that an expression is likely to be false.

### SB_UNREFERENCED_PARAMETER(x)

Trivially references a parameter that is otherwise unreferenced, preventing a
compiler warning on some platforms.

### SB_WARN_UNUSED_RESULT

Causes the annotated (at the end) function to generate a warning if the result
is not accessed.
