Note that background is buggy right now!
Test
background-image: initial
background-position-x: initial
background-position-y: initial
background-size: initial
background-repeat-x: initial
background-repeat-y: initial
background-attachment: initial
background-origin: initial
background-clip: initial
background-color: purple
margin-top: 1em
margin-right: 1em
margin-bottom: 1em
margin-left: 1em
color: white
font-style: normal
font-variant-caps: normal
font-variant-ligatures: normal
font-variant-numeric: normal
font-variant-east-asian: normal
font-variant-alternates: normal
font-size-adjust: none
font-kerning: auto
font-optical-sizing: auto
font-feature-settings: normal
font-variation-settings: normal
font-variant-position: normal
font-weight: normal
font-stretch: normal
font-size: 24px
line-height: normal
font-family: "Lucida Grande"

