.. _contest_faq:

.. include:: /migration/deprecation.inc

####################
Security Contest FAQ
####################

.. include:: contest-warning.txt

This FAQ is provided for reference only. For the complete official
contest rules, see the Terms and Conditions.

.. contents::
   :local:
   :backlinks: none

What is this contest about?
===========================

We launched this contest in order to help make Native Client more
secure. We invite participants to discover security bugs in our
technology in order to compete to win cash prizes.

Where can I get more information on Native Client?
==================================================

You can read our `research paper
<http://static.googleusercontent.com/external_content/untrusted_dlcp/research.google.com/en/us/pubs/archive/34913.pdf>`_
(PDF) or visit the site for the `Native Client open-source project
<http://code.google.com/p/nativeclient>`_.

What people are you looking for?
================================

We are not looking for any particular participant profile. Everyone
who is eligible to participate based on the :doc:`Terms and Conditions
<contest-terms>` of the contest can sign up.

How do I sign up?
=================

The first thing you need to do is to register. Then you and your team
members (if any) will receive an email from our team asking you to
review and accept the :doc:`Terms and Conditions
<contest-terms>`:doc:` of the contest <contest-terms>`. Once everyone
from your team has accepted the :doc:`Terms and Conditions
<contest-terms>` you can start submitting bugs through the Native
Client issue tracker.  You should not submit any bugs as part of your
contest entries until everyone on your team has accepted the
:doc:`Terms and Conditions <contest-terms>`, as those bugs will not be
eligible for consideration in the contest.

What is the process of participating?
=====================================

After you register yourself or your team and every member of your team
has accepted the :doc:`Terms and Conditions <contest-terms>`, download
the latest build of Native Client, attack it, and identify security
exploits. Submit these bugs through our Native Client Issue Tracker as
quickly as you can, as you will only get credit for exploits that are
first reported by yourself or your team. Before the end of the
contest, you will need to submit a summary with the top 10 exploits
you identified. Our judges will review submitted summaries and will
select the top 5 contestants.

.. _contest_faq_prizes:

How many prizes are there? What are the prizes?
===============================================

There are five cash prizes: The first prize is $8,192, the second
prize $4,096, the third prize is $2,048, the fourth prize is $1,024
and the fifth prize is $1,024. All amounts are in USD.

Can I sign up as a team? How many people can be a member of my team?
====================================================================

You can sign up as a team. There is no limit to how many people can
participate in your team. However we recommend that you keep the size
of your team small so as to be able to better coordinate during the
contest.

What will I need to do to win?
==============================

To participate, you will need to test the Native Client builds,
identify security exploits which affect the current Native Client
build at the time of submission and report them to our team. Our
judges will review your entry. If you are one of the top five
participants selected by the judges and satisfy the requirements for
eligibility, then you will win a cash prize. For more information on
how to participate and how your entry will be evaluated please review
our detailed :doc:`Terms and Conditions <contest-terms>`.

Who is going to judge these entries? Who are these people?
==========================================================

Google has recruited a group of distinguished security experts to
serve as judges for this contest:

* Edward Felten â€” jury chair (Princeton)
* Alex Halderman (Michigan)
* Brad Karp (University College London)
* Greg Morrisett (Harvard)
* Niels Provos (Google)
* Stefan Savage (UCSD)
* Dan Wallach (Rice)
* Bennet Yee (Google)
* Nickolai Zeldovich (MIT)

Check out the :ref:`Judges info <contest_judges>` to learn more about
their careers and contributions to the security community.

When can I start submitting issues?
===================================

You can start submitting issues after you and your team members (if
any) have completed the registration process and accepted the
:doc:`Terms and Conditions <contest-terms>`.

Registration does not work for me---what can I do?
==================================================

We recommend that you post this problem at the Google Group. Once you
do so, a member from our team will reach out to you to try to diagnose
the issue. We will try to help you out; keep in mind though that we
can not be responsible for the inability of a participant to register.

I registered as a team but I want to change the team composition by adding or removing members. What should I do?
=================================================================================================================

Please reply to one of the registration email messages you received
(it should be sent to nacl-security-contest@google.com) and indicate
the changes you'd like to make. Please note that neither the team name
nor team membership can be changed once all members have accepted the
:doc:`Terms and Conditions <contest-terms>`.

I have a previous engagement and I cannot sign up until after the competition starts. Is this ok?
=================================================================================================

You can sign up until the last day of the contest May
5th, 2009. However, keep in mind that while you can submit bugs
through the Native Client Issue Tracker, none of these will be taken
into account unless you (and all your team members) have completed the
registration process prior to submitting any bugs.

My team has accepted the Terms and Conditions except for one person who is unavailable / whose email was misspelled / etc. What can I do?
=========================================================================================================================================

To make edits to your team's composition, or to update the contact
information of a team member, you will need to reply to one of the
registration emails you received (it should be sent to
nacl-security-contest@google.com) and indicate the changes you'd like
to make. Please note that this will mean that your team members will
receive an email notifying them of the changes in the team's
composition and asking them to re-accept the :doc:`Terms and
Conditions <contest-terms>`. All team members will need to re-accept
the :doc:`Terms and Conditions <contest-terms>` for the team to be
considered as active.

Can I enter multiple times?
===========================

No, you cannot enter multiple times. If you register as an individual
you can not also register on a team and if you are on a team you can
not also be on another team.

Why do you need a prize recipient?
==================================

Google will not be responsible for the division of any prize money
between members of a potential winning team. Instead Google will
deliver the prize to one member indicated by the team. The team is
solely responsible for managing the logistics of distributing the
prize among team members. This is why Google asks all participating
teams to identify a prize recipient.

We want to change the prize recipient. What can we do?
======================================================

To make edits to the prize recipient before all team members have
accepted the :doc:`Terms and Conditions <contest-terms>`, you will
need to reply to one of the registration emails you received (it
should be sent to nacl-security-contest@google.com) and indicate the
changes you'd like to make. Please note that this will mean that your
team members will receive an email notifying them of the change and
asking them to re-accept the :doc:`Terms and Conditions
<contest-terms>`. All team members will need to re-accept the
:doc:`Terms and Conditions <contest-terms>` for the team to be
considered registered. After all team members have accepted the
:doc:`Terms and Conditions <contest-terms>`, there can be no changes
to the prize recipient.

I want to remain anonymous during the contest. Is this possible?
================================================================

Yes. However, you will still need to provide us with your email
address to register. After the contest ends and if you are one of the
top 5 participants, to claim your prize, you and all of your team
members (if any) will need to submit to Google all necessary tax and
legal information that Google will need to comply with US and
international legal and tax regulations.

One of my professors / friends is a judge. Can I participate?
=============================================================

Yes, you can participate.

Can my company be registered as an entrant?
===========================================

No, this is not possible under our :doc:`Terms and Conditions
<contest-terms>`.

I never signed up for this contest, but I got an email from you. What is this about?
====================================================================================

You have probably received an e-mail identifying you as a member of
team that another person has created. In our email, we identified the
email address of a person who registered you as a teammate in the
Native Client Security Contest. If you want to participate in this
person's team, then accept the :doc:`Terms and Conditions
<contest-terms>` by clicking on the link included in the email. If you
do not wish to participate in the contest or you want to do so as a
member of a different team, then you can remove yourself from the list
of team members of that particular team.

I tried to sign up and it seems someone who wants to be a member of my team has already registered with another team. What can we do?
=====================================================================================================================================

If everyone in your potential teammate's original team (including
themselves) has accepted the :doc:`Terms and Conditions
<contest-terms>` of the contest, then unfortunately you will have to
look for other potential partners. Otherwise, your potential teammate
can remove themselves from the other team. All they will need to do is
to reply to one of the registration emails they received (it should
be sent to nacl-security-contest@google.com) and indicate the changes
to be made. Please note that this will mean that their team members
will receive an email notifying them of the changes in the team's
composition and asking them to re-accept the :doc:`Terms and
Conditions <contest-terms>`. All team members of that team will need
to re-accept the :doc:`Terms and Conditions <contest-terms>` for that
team to be considered as active.

I lost or never got the email asking me to confirm the Terms and Conditions. What can I do?
===========================================================================================

Don't worry, just send us an email at nacl-security-contest@google.com
and we will send you the link you need.

One of our team members rejected the Terms and Conditions. What can we do?
==========================================================================

Your team is now considered to be invalid. If this rejection happened
by accident, please restart the registration process. If it was
deliberate then create a new team with teammates who are willing to
accept the :doc:`Terms and Conditions <contest-terms>`. No one can
participate in the contest unless they have accepted the :doc:`Terms
and Conditions <contest-terms>` and no team can participate unless all
team members have accepted the :doc:`Terms and Conditions
<contest-terms>`.

How are you going to evaluate the submissions?
==============================================

The judges will evaluate each Summary based on the following
criteria: a) Quality (Severity, Scope, Reliability and Style) and b)
Quantity. Please review the judging criteria in the contest
:doc:`Terms and Conditions <contest-terms>` for more information.

Can I include issues I submitted before the contest?
====================================================

No, you can not.

What is the difference between exploit, issue and summary?
==========================================================

An exploit becomes an issue once you submit it through the Native
Client issue tracker. A summary can include multiple issues but not
more than 10.

What issues should I include in the summary?
============================================

You should include a maximum of 10 issues that you and your team
members (if any) submitted to the Native Client Issue tracker. We
recommend that you carefully review the judging criteria in the
:doc:`Terms and Conditions <contest-terms>` to identify which bugs are
more likely to be perceived as high impact from our judges and could
help you win one of the five cash prizes. Do not include issues that
have been marked as duplicates or unverifiable, as these will not be
taken into account by our judges.

Why are you asking for the top 10 issues only?
==============================================

We want to make sure that we use our judges' time wisely. Rather than
having them review hundreds of similar or small scale bugs, sometimes
identified with the same automatic process, we are limiting the number
of issues that each participant can submit in their summary.

My English is not great---will this count against me in the judging process?
============================================================================

Entries in languages other than in English or entries that are deemed
incomprehensible by the judges will not be reviewed. We do not plan to
penalize summaries for spelling or grammar mistakes, but please make
your descriptions as clear as possible.

What information do I need to include in the issue submission?
==============================================================

Please review the "Minimum requirements for issues" section of
contest's :doc:`Terms and Conditions <contest-terms>`. You will find a
list of all the information you will need to include in every
submitted issue. Failure to provide this information might make the
submitted issue invalid for the purposes of this contest.

How do I contest a decision that a bug is a duplicate?
======================================================

Please highlight this in our Google Group and a member of our team
will get in touch with you.

Why is the Native Client team updating the source code during the contest?
==========================================================================

We are updating Native Client's source code to fix bugs reported by
contest participants or exploits identified by our team. Our goal is
to protect contestants and other users of the Native Client software
from exploits that could damage their system. In addition, by updating
our builds, we will be providing you with more opportunities to find
new security bugs. Finally, we believe this will make the contest more
interesting by continuously raising the bar of bug finding.

I forgot to include something in the summary---what can I do?
=============================================================

If the contest has not ended, you may submit an updated summary. You
may not submit an updated summary once the contest has ended.

Someone from our team submitted a summary on behalf of our team without consulting with everyone else. How can we ensure that the judges will use the previous summary and not the last one?
============================================================================================================================================================================================

If your team member submitted their version of the team's summary
before the end date of the contest, and if this is the last summary
that was submitted from your team, then the Judges will disregard all
previous versions of your summary and will only review this last
one. If the contest has not ended, you may resubmit a previous summary
to override the first.

Will you be evaluating each exploit separately for every one of the criteria?
=============================================================================

We will use our criteria to evaluate submitted summaries, not
individual exploits.

I only found one exploit but I think it is very good. Can I still win?
======================================================================

Yes. Quantity is only one of the criteria we use to evaluate submitted
summaries.

How are you going to pick the winners?
======================================

After the contest ends, all submitted Summaries will be judged by a
panel of at least three judges. The judges will evaluate each Summary
based on the following criteria: a) Quality (Severity, Scope,
Reliability and Style) and b) Quantity. Each panel will evaluate a
number of the submitted summaries and will select the highest ranking
Summaries to move to the next level of judging. Those top Summaries
will then be evaluated by all Judges using the same Criteria, and the
top five Summaries will be selected as potential winners. For more
information on the judging criteria and the judging process please
review the relevant section of the :doc:`Terms and Conditions
<contest-terms>`.

When and how are we going to find out the results of the contest?
=================================================================

We will contact all prospective winners at the email address provided
to us at the registration process. You may request a list of winners
after December 7th, 2009 by writing to: Native Client Security Contest
Google Inc. 1600 Amphitheater Parkway Mountain View, CA 94043 USA

What will Google do with my data?
=================================

The personal data you provided to Google during the Contest will be
stored and processed in the US within the context of the Contest. We
will maintain your data in the way described at the Google Privacy
Policy found at http://www.google.com/privacypolicy.html. Google may
use your data to verify your identity, postal address and telephone
number in the event you qualify for a prize. You have a right to
access and withdraw your personal data. To exercise this right, you
may write to: Native Client Security Contest, Google Inc., 1600
Amphitheater Parkway, Mountain View, CA 94043, USA.

I have more questions---where can I get a response?
===================================================

We recommend to ask any additional questions you might have in the
Google Group. Members from our team will be monitoring the group and
will respond to your question there, to benefit other contest
participants.

I like this project. Are you hiring people to work on it full time?
===================================================================

At Google we are always looking for great people. Please review our
current openings at www.google.com/jobs.

How can I get involved in this project besides the contest?
===========================================================

Thank you for your interest in Native Client. You can help us by:

* Identifying bugs
* Porting OS libraries
* Writing apps

We would also like to see you participate in our discussion group.

Why is my country/province excluded from the contest?
=====================================================

While we seek to make this contest open worldwide, we cannot open it
to residents of Cuba, Iran, Syria, North Korea, Sudan, or Myanmar
(Burma) because of U.S. laws. In addition, the contest is not open to
residents of Brazil, Italy, or Quebec because of local
restrictions. For more information on eligibility, see the :doc:`Terms
and Conditions <contest-terms>`.
