## Cobalt 25 LTS Stable
The Cobalt team is thrilled to announce the stable release of **Cobalt 25 LTS
([25.lts.10.XXXXX](https://github.com/youtube/cobalt/tree/25.lts.stable))**
The Evergreen binaries are available on GitHub
([X.X.XX](https://github.com/youtube/cobalt/releases/tag/25.lts.1))
Cobalt 25 LTS includes **Starboard API version 16** for porters and this stable
release version supports all features that are required for **2025 YouTube
Certification**. The code is available at Cobalt open source
[25.lts.stable](https://github.com/youtube/cobalt/tree/25.lts.stable)
branch. (Read
[branching](https://github.com/youtube/cobalt/blob/24.lts.stable/cobalt/site/docs/gen/cobalt/doc/branching.md)
and
[versioning](https://github.com/youtube/cobalt/blob/24.lts.stable/cobalt/site/docs/gen/cobalt/doc/versioning.md)
documents for more information)
There are newly implemented features, improvements, and simplified code. We have
outlined the changelist with a brief description of **Cobalt 25 LTS** and
**Starboard 16** changes.
### Cobalt Changes
(see[
cobalt/CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/youtube/cobalt/blob/main/cobalt/CHANGELOG.md)
for more information)
#### New Features / Support
*   **Chromium M114 Update:** Upgraded most Chromium components to align with
    the M114 milestone release - including syncing the build environment and
    compilers.
*   **HTTP/3 with IETF QUIC:** Integrated HTTP/3 with IETF standard QUIC for
    enhance video playback performance in challenging network conditions.
*   **Immersive Audio Model and Formats (IAMF):** Added support for IAMF audio.
*   **Android U Support:** Extended compatibility to Android U
#### Updates / Improvements
*   **Embedded ICU Data:** Linked ICU data directly into the Cobalt binary,
    reducing storage (via binary compression) and simplifying updates.
*   **Logging and Telemetry Enhancements:** Improved logging and telemetry for
    update reliability and crash reporting
#### Evergreen
*   **LZ4 Compressed Binaries:** Made LZ4 compressed binaries the default
    distribution format.
*   **Evergreen-Full on AOSP:** Enabled Evergreen-Full support on AOSP (Android
    Open Source).
### Starboard Changes
(see
[starboard/CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/youtube/cobalt/blob/main/starboard/CHANGELOG.md)
for more information)
#### New Features / Support
*   **POSIX API Adoption:** Adopted POSIX APIs (see [migration
    guide](https://github.com/youtube/cobalt/blob/main/starboard/doc/starboard_16_posix.md)
    for details), reducing the total number of Starboard interface functions to
    191 (vs 274 in Starboard 15).
*   **Partial Audio Frame Support:** Introduced a new configuration constant
    (kHasPartialAudioFramesSupport) for partial audio frames.
#### Updates / Improvements
*   **pthread Migration:** Migrated various components (e.g.,`
    SbConditionVariable`, `SbOnce`, `SbThreadLocalKey`) to pthread.
*   **Memory and File System Migration:** Migrated memory allocation functions
    (`SbMemoryAllocate`, `SbMemoryMap` and others) to `malloc`, `mmap` and file
    system functions (`SbDirectoryOpen`, `SbDirectoryClose` and others) to
    equivalent `opendir`, `closedir`.
*   **Socket API Migration:** Migrated `SbSocket` to socket APIs.
*   **Starboard Extensions : `Accessibility`** and `onScreenKeyboard` Starboard
    APIs are converted to Starboard Extensions (available in`
    starboard/extension/accessibility.h `and
    `starboard/extension/on_screen_keyboard.h` respectively).
*   **Build Standard Upgrade:** Upgraded the C build standard to C11.
    *   Removed `SB_C_NOINLINE`.
    *   Deprecated `SB_C_INLINE` and removed config for `SB_C_FORCE_INLINE`.
    *   Removed configs for `SB_EXPORT_PLATFORM` and `SB_IMPORT_PLATFORM`.
*   **Configuration Changes:**
    *   Changed `MAP_EXECUTABLE_MEMORY` from build-time to runtime config
        (`kSbCanMapExecutableMemory`).
*   **Additional Migrations:** Migrated `SbDirectoryCanOpen`, `SbFileExists`,
    and `SbFileGetPathInfo` to `start` , and `SbFileOpen`, `SbFileClose` to
    `open`, `close`.
#### Deprecations
*   **Deprecated Evergreen-x86 ABI:** The x86 platform configurations, builds
    and ABI are no longer supported for Evergreen.
*   **OnScreenKeyboard:** Deprecated OnScreenKeyboard.
*   **Unused Configurations:** Deprecated various unused configurations (e.g.,
    `B_HAS_GLES2`, `SB_HAS_NV12_TEXTURE_SUPPORT`, `VIRTUAL_REALITY`,
    `DeployPathPatterns`, `SPEECH_SYNTHESIS`, `FILESYSTEM_ZERO_FILEINFO_TIME`,
    `SB_HAS_PIPE`).
*   **Audio and Media:**
    *   Deprecated SB_HAS_QUIRK(SUPPORT_INT16_AUDIO_SAMPLES).
    *   Deprecated `SbMediaGetBufferAlignment`, `SbMediaGetBufferPadding` and
        `SbMediaGetBufferStorageType`.
    *   Deprecated `SbMediaIsBufferUsingMemoryPool`, and memory pool is always
        used. (`SbMediaIsBufferUsingMemoryPool` is required to be true)
*   **Starboard Hash Configs:** Deprecated Starboard hash configs.
### 2025 YouTube Certification
Remember to use "_25.lts.stable_" for the 2025 YouTube certification and for
your product release. Cobalt Known Issues with Status, Fixes, and Mitigations
can be found in the [YouTube Partner
Portal](https://developers.google.com/youtube/devices/living-room/support/cobalt-known-issues).
### Contact Points
Contact our [support channels](https://cobalt.dev/communication.html) if
you have any problems, questions, or feedback.
No newline at end of right file.
