Project: /youtube/cobalt/_project.yaml
Book: /youtube/cobalt/_book.yaml

# How to Communicate with the Cobalt Team

We have several communication channels that we actively support, each for
different purposes.

## Filing Bugs and Feature Requests

If you have identified a bug in Cobalt common code - meaning that you don't
expect that it is related to a platform or port implementation quirk, then you
should file a bug on our public issue tracker.

Additionally, if you have specific feature requests, you can also file them on
our public tracker, but they should be very concrete and well-specified. If
unsure, ask about your request on cobalt-dev first.

[File a new Cobalt Bug](https://issuetracker.google.com/issues/new?component=181120)

[View all Open Cobalt Bugs](https://issuetracker.google.com/issues?q=componentid:181120%20status:open)


*You will need a valid Google account to post. You can [create a Google
account](https://accounts.google.com/SignUpWithoutGmail) with a non-gmail
address (say, your work email address).*


## Asking Technical Questions

For programming related technical questions about Starboard or Cobalt, we
encourage you to search through and post questions on [Stack
Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com) (SO). The team actively monitors for
Cobalt-tagged questions on SO.

Stack Overflow has guidelines about what kinds of questions are acceptable. In
particular, they should be about some aspect of **coding**, and not questions
about schedules, future plans, certifications and so on. Additionally, they
should not be bug reports or feature requests, those should be filed on our
public Issue Tracker.

[View recent Cobalt SO Questions](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/cobalt)

[Ask a Cobalt Question on SO](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/ask?tags=cobalt)


## Asking about Schedules, Discussing Features, Announcements, and Miscellany

We also have a dedicated mailing list, cobalt-dev@googlegroups.com. If you are
spending time with Cobalt, you may want to subscribe. And if you have a concern
that doesn't fit into the above categories, asking about it on cobalt-dev is a
reasonable course of action.

[cobalt-dev@googlegroups.com](cobalt-dev@googlegroups.com)

[cobalt-dev web interface](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cobalt-dev)


## YouTube Topics

If you are using Cobalt for YouTube on your device, and have YouTube-specific
questions, you should contact your YouTube technical account manager
directly. The above forums are Cobalt-specific, but not YouTube-specific.  The
Cobalt engineering team can't speak on behalf of Google or YouTube.
