This test documents all interface attributes and methods on the global window object and element instances.

On success, you will see a series of "PASS" messages, followed by "TEST COMPLETE".

[INTERFACES]
interface AbortController
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter signal
    method abort
    method constructor
interface AbortSignal : EventTarget
    static method abort
    static method timeout
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter aborted
    getter onabort
    getter reason
    method constructor
    method throwIfAborted
    setter onabort
interface AbsoluteOrientationSensor : OrientationSensor
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface AbstractRange
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter collapsed
    getter endContainer
    getter endOffset
    getter startContainer
    getter startOffset
    method constructor
interface Accelerometer : Sensor
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter x
    getter y
    getter z
    method constructor
interface AnalyserNode : AudioNode
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter fftSize
    getter frequencyBinCount
    getter maxDecibels
    getter minDecibels
    getter smoothingTimeConstant
    method constructor
    method getByteFrequencyData
    method getByteTimeDomainData
    method getFloatFrequencyData
    method getFloatTimeDomainData
    setter fftSize
    setter maxDecibels
    setter minDecibels
    setter smoothingTimeConstant
interface Animation : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter currentTime
    getter effect
    getter finished
    getter id
    getter oncancel
    getter onfinish
    getter onremove
    getter pending
    getter playState
    getter playbackRate
    getter ready
    getter replaceState
    getter startTime
    getter timeline
    method cancel
    method commitStyles
    method constructor
    method finish
    method pause
    method persist
    method play
    method reverse
    method updatePlaybackRate
    setter currentTime
    setter effect
    setter id
    setter oncancel
    setter onfinish
    setter onremove
    setter playbackRate
    setter startTime
    setter timeline
interface AnimationEffect
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method getComputedTiming
    method getTiming
    method updateTiming
interface AnimationEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter animationName
    getter elapsedTime
    getter pseudoElement
    method constructor
interface AnimationPlaybackEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter currentTime
    getter timelineTime
    method constructor
interface AnimationTimeline
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter currentTime
    method constructor
interface Attr : Node
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter localName
    getter name
    getter namespaceURI
    getter ownerElement
    getter prefix
    getter specified
    getter value
    method constructor
    setter value
interface Audio
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface AudioBuffer
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter duration
    getter length
    getter numberOfChannels
    getter sampleRate
    method constructor
    method copyFromChannel
    method copyToChannel
    method getChannelData
interface AudioBufferSourceNode : AudioScheduledSourceNode
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter buffer
    getter detune
    getter loop
    getter loopEnd
    getter loopStart
    getter playbackRate
    method constructor
    method start
    setter buffer
    setter loop
    setter loopEnd
    setter loopStart
interface AudioContext : BaseAudioContext
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter baseLatency
    getter onsinkchange
    getter outputLatency
    getter sinkId
    method close
    method constructor
    method createMediaElementSource
    method createMediaStreamDestination
    method createMediaStreamSource
    method getOutputTimestamp
    method resume
    method setSinkId
    method suspend
    setter onsinkchange
interface AudioData
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter duration
    getter format
    getter numberOfChannels
    getter numberOfFrames
    getter sampleRate
    getter timestamp
    method allocationSize
    method clone
    method close
    method constructor
    method copyTo
interface AudioDecoder : EventTarget
    static method isConfigSupported
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter decodeQueueSize
    getter ondequeue
    getter state
    method close
    method configure
    method constructor
    method decode
    method flush
    method reset
    setter ondequeue
interface AudioDestinationNode : AudioNode
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter maxChannelCount
    method constructor
interface AudioEncoder : EventTarget
    static method isConfigSupported
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter encodeQueueSize
    getter ondequeue
    getter state
    method close
    method configure
    method constructor
    method encode
    method flush
    method reset
    setter ondequeue
interface AudioListener
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter forwardX
    getter forwardY
    getter forwardZ
    getter positionX
    getter positionY
    getter positionZ
    getter upX
    getter upY
    getter upZ
    method constructor
    method setOrientation
    method setPosition
interface AudioNode : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter channelCount
    getter channelCountMode
    getter channelInterpretation
    getter context
    getter numberOfInputs
    getter numberOfOutputs
    method connect
    method constructor
    method disconnect
    setter channelCount
    setter channelCountMode
    setter channelInterpretation
interface AudioParam
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter automationRate
    getter defaultValue
    getter maxValue
    getter minValue
    getter value
    method cancelAndHoldAtTime
    method cancelScheduledValues
    method constructor
    method exponentialRampToValueAtTime
    method linearRampToValueAtTime
    method setTargetAtTime
    method setValueAtTime
    method setValueCurveAtTime
    setter automationRate
    setter value
interface AudioParamMap
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter size
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method entries
    method forEach
    method get
    method has
    method keys
    method values
interface AudioProcessingEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter inputBuffer
    getter outputBuffer
    getter playbackTime
    method constructor
interface AudioScheduledSourceNode : AudioNode
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter onended
    method constructor
    method start
    method stop
    setter onended
interface AudioSinkInfo
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter type
    method constructor
interface AudioWorklet : Worklet
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface AudioWorkletNode : AudioNode
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter onprocessorerror
    getter parameters
    getter port
    method constructor
    setter onprocessorerror
interface AuthenticatorAssertionResponse : AuthenticatorResponse
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter authenticatorData
    getter signature
    getter userHandle
    method constructor
interface AuthenticatorAttestationResponse : AuthenticatorResponse
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter attestationObject
    method constructor
    method getAuthenticatorData
    method getPublicKey
    method getPublicKeyAlgorithm
    method getTransports
interface AuthenticatorResponse
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter clientDataJSON
    method constructor
interface BackgroundFetchManager
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method fetch
    method get
    method getIds
interface BackgroundFetchRecord
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter request
    getter responseReady
    method constructor
interface BackgroundFetchRegistration : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter downloadTotal
    getter downloaded
    getter failureReason
    getter id
    getter onprogress
    getter recordsAvailable
    getter result
    getter uploadTotal
    getter uploaded
    method abort
    method constructor
    method match
    method matchAll
    setter onprogress
interface BarProp
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter visible
    method constructor
interface BaseAudioContext : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter audioWorklet
    getter currentTime
    getter destination
    getter listener
    getter onstatechange
    getter sampleRate
    getter state
    method constructor
    method createAnalyser
    method createBiquadFilter
    method createBuffer
    method createBufferSource
    method createChannelMerger
    method createChannelSplitter
    method createConstantSource
    method createConvolver
    method createDelay
    method createDynamicsCompressor
    method createGain
    method createIIRFilter
    method createOscillator
    method createPanner
    method createPeriodicWave
    method createScriptProcessor
    method createStereoPanner
    method createWaveShaper
    method decodeAudioData
    setter onstatechange
interface BatteryManager : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter charging
    getter chargingTime
    getter dischargingTime
    getter level
    getter onchargingchange
    getter onchargingtimechange
    getter ondischargingtimechange
    getter onlevelchange
    method constructor
    setter onchargingchange
    setter onchargingtimechange
    setter ondischargingtimechange
    setter onlevelchange
interface BeforeInstallPromptEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter platforms
    getter userChoice
    method constructor
    method prompt
interface BeforeUnloadEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter returnValue
    method constructor
    setter returnValue
interface BiquadFilterNode : AudioNode
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter Q
    getter detune
    getter frequency
    getter gain
    getter type
    method constructor
    method getFrequencyResponse
    setter type
interface Blob
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter size
    getter type
    method arrayBuffer
    method constructor
    method slice
    method stream
    method text
interface BlobEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter data
    getter timecode
    method constructor
interface BroadcastChannel : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter name
    getter onmessage
    getter onmessageerror
    method close
    method constructor
    method postMessage
    setter onmessage
    setter onmessageerror
interface BrowserCaptureMediaStreamTrack : MediaStreamTrack
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method cropTo
interface ByteLengthQueuingStrategy
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter highWaterMark
    getter size
    method constructor
interface CDATASection : Text
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface CSSAnimation : Animation
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter animationName
    method constructor
interface CSSConditionRule : CSSGroupingRule
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter conditionText
    method constructor
interface CSSContainerRule : CSSConditionRule
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter containerName
    getter containerQuery
    method constructor
interface CSSCounterStyleRule : CSSRule
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter additiveSymbols
    getter fallback
    getter name
    getter negative
    getter pad
    getter prefix
    getter range
    getter speakAs
    getter suffix
    getter symbols
    getter system
    method constructor
    setter additiveSymbols
    setter fallback
    setter name
    setter negative
    setter pad
    setter prefix
    setter range
    setter speakAs
    setter suffix
    setter symbols
    setter system
interface CSSFontFaceRule : CSSRule
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter style
    method constructor
interface CSSFontPaletteValuesRule : CSSRule
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter basePalette
    getter fontFamily
    getter name
    getter overrideColors
    method constructor
interface CSSGroupingRule : CSSRule
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter cssRules
    method constructor
    method deleteRule
    method insertRule
interface CSSImageValue : CSSStyleValue
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface CSSImportRule : CSSRule
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter href
    getter layerName
    getter media
    getter styleSheet
    method constructor
    setter media
interface CSSKeyframeRule : CSSRule
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter keyText
    getter style
    method constructor
    setter keyText
    setter style
interface CSSKeyframesRule : CSSRule
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter cssRules
    getter name
    method @@iterator
    method appendRule
    method constructor
    method deleteRule
    method findRule
    setter name
interface CSSKeywordValue : CSSStyleValue
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter value
    method constructor
    setter value
interface CSSLayerBlockRule : CSSGroupingRule
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter name
    method constructor
interface CSSLayerStatementRule : CSSRule
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter nameList
    method constructor
interface CSSMathClamp : CSSMathValue
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter lower
    getter upper
    getter value
    method constructor
interface CSSMathInvert : CSSMathValue
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter value
    method constructor
interface CSSMathMax : CSSMathValue
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter values
    method constructor
interface CSSMathMin : CSSMathValue
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter values
    method constructor
interface CSSMathNegate : CSSMathValue
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter value
    method constructor
interface CSSMathProduct : CSSMathValue
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter values
    method constructor
interface CSSMathSum : CSSMathValue
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter values
    method constructor
interface CSSMathValue : CSSNumericValue
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter operator
    method constructor
interface CSSMatrixComponent : CSSTransformComponent
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter matrix
    method constructor
    setter matrix
interface CSSMediaRule : CSSConditionRule
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter media
    method constructor
    setter media
interface CSSNamespaceRule : CSSRule
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter namespaceURI
    getter prefix
    method constructor
interface CSSNumericArray
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method entries
    method forEach
    method keys
    method values
interface CSSNumericValue : CSSStyleValue
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method add
    method constructor
    method div
    method equals
    method max
    method min
    method mul
    method sub
    method to
    method toSum
    method type
interface CSSPageRule : CSSRule
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter selectorText
    getter style
    method constructor
    setter selectorText
    setter style
interface CSSPerspective : CSSTransformComponent
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    method constructor
    setter length
interface CSSPositionValue : CSSStyleValue
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
    setter x
    setter y
interface CSSPropertyRule : CSSRule
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter inherits
    getter initialValue
    getter name
    getter syntax
    method constructor
interface CSSRotate : CSSTransformComponent
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter angle
    getter x
    getter y
    getter z
    method constructor
    setter angle
    setter x
    setter y
    setter z
interface CSSRule
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute CHARSET_RULE
    attribute COUNTER_STYLE_RULE
    attribute FONT_FACE_RULE
    attribute FONT_FEATURE_VALUES_RULE
    attribute IMPORT_RULE
    attribute KEYFRAMES_RULE
    attribute KEYFRAME_RULE
    attribute MEDIA_RULE
    attribute NAMESPACE_RULE
    attribute PAGE_RULE
    attribute STYLE_RULE
    attribute SUPPORTS_RULE
    getter cssText
    getter parentRule
    getter parentStyleSheet
    getter type
    method constructor
    setter cssText
interface CSSRuleList
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method item
interface CSSScale : CSSTransformComponent
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter x
    getter y
    getter z
    method constructor
    setter x
    setter y
    setter z
interface CSSSkew : CSSTransformComponent
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter ax
    getter ay
    method constructor
    setter ax
    setter ay
interface CSSSkewX : CSSTransformComponent
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter ax
    method constructor
    setter ax
interface CSSSkewY : CSSTransformComponent
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter ay
    method constructor
    setter ay
interface CSSStyleDeclaration
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter cssFloat
    getter cssText
    getter length
    getter parentRule
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method getPropertyPriority
    method getPropertyValue
    method item
    method removeProperty
    method setProperty
    setter cssFloat
    setter cssText
interface CSSStyleRule : CSSRule
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter cssRules
    getter selectorText
    getter style
    getter styleMap
    method constructor
    method deleteRule
    method insertRule
    setter selectorText
    setter style
interface CSSStyleSheet : StyleSheet
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter cssRules
    getter ownerRule
    getter rules
    method addRule
    method constructor
    method deleteRule
    method insertRule
    method removeRule
    method replace
    method replaceSync
interface CSSStyleValue
    static method parse
    static method parseAll
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method toString
interface CSSSupportsRule : CSSConditionRule
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface CSSTransformComponent
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter is2D
    method constructor
    method toMatrix
    method toString
    setter is2D
interface CSSTransformValue : CSSStyleValue
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter is2D
    getter length
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method entries
    method forEach
    method keys
    method toMatrix
    method values
interface CSSTransition : Animation
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter transitionProperty
    method constructor
interface CSSTranslate : CSSTransformComponent
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter x
    getter y
    getter z
    method constructor
    setter x
    setter y
    setter z
interface CSSUnitValue : CSSNumericValue
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter unit
    getter value
    method constructor
    setter value
interface CSSUnparsedValue : CSSStyleValue
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method entries
    method forEach
    method keys
    method values
interface CSSVariableReferenceValue
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter fallback
    getter variable
    method constructor
    setter variable
interface Cache
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method add
    method addAll
    method constructor
    method delete
    method keys
    method match
    method matchAll
    method put
interface CacheStorage
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method delete
    method has
    method keys
    method match
    method open
interface CanvasCaptureMediaStreamTrack : MediaStreamTrack
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter canvas
    method constructor
    method requestFrame
interface CanvasGradient
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method addColorStop
    method constructor
interface CanvasPattern
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method setTransform
interface CanvasRenderingContext2D
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter canvas
    getter direction
    getter fillStyle
    getter filter
    getter font
    getter fontKerning
    getter fontStretch
    getter fontVariantCaps
    getter globalAlpha
    getter globalCompositeOperation
    getter imageSmoothingEnabled
    getter imageSmoothingQuality
    getter letterSpacing
    getter lineCap
    getter lineDashOffset
    getter lineJoin
    getter lineWidth
    getter miterLimit
    getter shadowBlur
    getter shadowColor
    getter shadowOffsetX
    getter shadowOffsetY
    getter strokeStyle
    getter textAlign
    getter textBaseline
    getter textRendering
    getter wordSpacing
    method arc
    method arcTo
    method beginPath
    method bezierCurveTo
    method clearRect
    method clip
    method closePath
    method constructor
    method createConicGradient
    method createImageData
    method createLinearGradient
    method createPattern
    method createRadialGradient
    method drawFocusIfNeeded
    method drawImage
    method ellipse
    method fill
    method fillRect
    method fillText
    method getContextAttributes
    method getImageData
    method getLineDash
    method getTransform
    method isContextLost
    method isPointInPath
    method isPointInStroke
    method lineTo
    method measureText
    method moveTo
    method putImageData
    method quadraticCurveTo
    method rect
    method reset
    method resetTransform
    method restore
    method rotate
    method roundRect
    method save
    method scale
    method setLineDash
    method setTransform
    method stroke
    method strokeRect
    method strokeText
    method transform
    method translate
    setter direction
    setter fillStyle
    setter filter
    setter font
    setter fontKerning
    setter fontStretch
    setter fontVariantCaps
    setter globalAlpha
    setter globalCompositeOperation
    setter imageSmoothingEnabled
    setter imageSmoothingQuality
    setter letterSpacing
    setter lineCap
    setter lineDashOffset
    setter lineJoin
    setter lineWidth
    setter miterLimit
    setter shadowBlur
    setter shadowColor
    setter shadowOffsetX
    setter shadowOffsetY
    setter strokeStyle
    setter textAlign
    setter textBaseline
    setter textRendering
    setter wordSpacing
interface CaptureController
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method setFocusBehavior
interface ChannelMergerNode : AudioNode
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface ChannelSplitterNode : AudioNode
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface CharacterData : Node
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute @@unscopables
    getter data
    getter length
    getter nextElementSibling
    getter previousElementSibling
    method after
    method appendData
    method before
    method constructor
    method deleteData
    method insertData
    method remove
    method replaceData
    method replaceWith
    method substringData
    setter data
interface Clipboard : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method read
    method readText
    method write
    method writeText
interface ClipboardEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter clipboardData
    method constructor
interface ClipboardItem
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter types
    method constructor
    method getType
interface CloseEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter code
    getter reason
    getter wasClean
    method constructor
interface Comment : CharacterData
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface CompositionEvent : UIEvent
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter data
    method constructor
    method initCompositionEvent
interface CompressionStream
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter readable
    getter writable
    method constructor
interface ConstantSourceNode : AudioScheduledSourceNode
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter offset
    method constructor
interface ContentVisibilityAutoStateChangeEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter skipped
    method constructor
interface ConvolverNode : AudioNode
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter buffer
    getter normalize
    method constructor
    setter buffer
    setter normalize
interface CookieChangeEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter changed
    getter deleted
    method constructor
interface CookieStore : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter onchange
    method constructor
    method delete
    method get
    method getAll
    method set
    setter onchange
interface CookieStoreManager
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method getSubscriptions
    method subscribe
    method unsubscribe
interface CountQueuingStrategy
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter highWaterMark
    getter size
    method constructor
interface Credential
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter id
    getter type
    method constructor
interface CredentialsContainer
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method create
    method get
    method preventSilentAccess
    method store
interface CropTarget
    static method fromElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface Crypto
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter subtle
    method constructor
    method getRandomValues
    method randomUUID
interface CryptoKey
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter algorithm
    getter extractable
    getter type
    getter usages
    method constructor
interface CustomElementRegistry
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method define
    method get
    method upgrade
    method whenDefined
interface CustomEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter detail
    method constructor
    method initCustomEvent
interface CustomStateSet
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter size
    method @@iterator
    method add
    method clear
    method constructor
    method delete
    method entries
    method forEach
    method has
    method keys
    method values
interface DOMError
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter message
    getter name
    method constructor
interface DOMException
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute ABORT_ERR
    attribute DATA_CLONE_ERR
    attribute DOMSTRING_SIZE_ERR
    attribute HIERARCHY_REQUEST_ERR
    attribute INDEX_SIZE_ERR
    attribute INUSE_ATTRIBUTE_ERR
    attribute INVALID_ACCESS_ERR
    attribute INVALID_CHARACTER_ERR
    attribute INVALID_MODIFICATION_ERR
    attribute INVALID_NODE_TYPE_ERR
    attribute INVALID_STATE_ERR
    attribute NAMESPACE_ERR
    attribute NETWORK_ERR
    attribute NOT_FOUND_ERR
    attribute NOT_SUPPORTED_ERR
    attribute NO_DATA_ALLOWED_ERR
    attribute NO_MODIFICATION_ALLOWED_ERR
    attribute QUOTA_EXCEEDED_ERR
    attribute SECURITY_ERR
    attribute SYNTAX_ERR
    attribute TIMEOUT_ERR
    attribute TYPE_MISMATCH_ERR
    attribute URL_MISMATCH_ERR
    attribute VALIDATION_ERR
    attribute WRONG_DOCUMENT_ERR
    getter code
    getter message
    getter name
    method constructor
interface DOMImplementation
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method createDocument
    method createDocumentType
    method createHTMLDocument
    method hasFeature
interface DOMMatrix : DOMMatrixReadOnly
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter a
    getter b
    getter c
    getter d
    getter e
    getter f
    getter m11
    getter m12
    getter m13
    getter m14
    getter m21
    getter m22
    getter m23
    getter m24
    getter m31
    getter m32
    getter m33
    getter m34
    getter m41
    getter m42
    getter m43
    getter m44
    method constructor
    method invertSelf
    method multiplySelf
    method preMultiplySelf
    method rotateAxisAngleSelf
    method rotateFromVectorSelf
    method rotateSelf
    method scale3dSelf
    method scaleSelf
    method setMatrixValue
    method skewXSelf
    method skewYSelf
    method translateSelf
    setter a
    setter b
    setter c
    setter d
    setter e
    setter f
    setter m11
    setter m12
    setter m13
    setter m14
    setter m21
    setter m22
    setter m23
    setter m24
    setter m31
    setter m32
    setter m33
    setter m34
    setter m41
    setter m42
    setter m43
    setter m44
interface DOMMatrixReadOnly
    static method fromFloat32Array
    static method fromFloat64Array
    static method fromMatrix
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter a
    getter b
    getter c
    getter d
    getter e
    getter f
    getter is2D
    getter isIdentity
    getter m11
    getter m12
    getter m13
    getter m14
    getter m21
    getter m22
    getter m23
    getter m24
    getter m31
    getter m32
    getter m33
    getter m34
    getter m41
    getter m42
    getter m43
    getter m44
    method constructor
    method flipX
    method flipY
    method inverse
    method multiply
    method rotate
    method rotateAxisAngle
    method rotateFromVector
    method scale
    method scale3d
    method scaleNonUniform
    method skewX
    method skewY
    method toFloat32Array
    method toFloat64Array
    method toJSON
    method toString
    method transformPoint
    method translate
interface DOMParser
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method parseFromString
interface DOMPoint : DOMPointReadOnly
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter w
    getter x
    getter y
    getter z
    method constructor
    setter w
    setter x
    setter y
    setter z
interface DOMPointReadOnly
    static method fromPoint
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter w
    getter x
    getter y
    getter z
    method constructor
    method matrixTransform
    method toJSON
interface DOMQuad
    static method fromQuad
    static method fromRect
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter p1
    getter p2
    getter p3
    getter p4
    method constructor
    method getBounds
    method toJSON
interface DOMRect : DOMRectReadOnly
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter height
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
    setter height
    setter width
    setter x
    setter y
interface DOMRectList
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method item
interface DOMRectReadOnly
    static method fromRect
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter bottom
    getter height
    getter left
    getter right
    getter top
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
    method toJSON
interface DOMStringList
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method contains
    method item
interface DOMStringMap
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface DOMTokenList
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    getter value
    method @@iterator
    method add
    method constructor
    method contains
    method entries
    method forEach
    method item
    method keys
    method remove
    method replace
    method supports
    method toString
    method toggle
    method values
    setter value
interface DataTransfer
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter dropEffect
    getter effectAllowed
    getter files
    getter items
    getter types
    method clearData
    method constructor
    method getData
    method setData
    method setDragImage
    setter dropEffect
    setter effectAllowed
interface DataTransferItem
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter kind
    getter type
    method constructor
    method getAsFile
    method getAsFileSystemHandle
    method getAsString
    method webkitGetAsEntry
interface DataTransferItemList
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    method @@iterator
    method add
    method clear
    method constructor
    method remove
interface DecompressionStream
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter readable
    getter writable
    method constructor
interface DelayNode : AudioNode
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter delayTime
    method constructor
interface DelegatedInkTrailPresenter
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter expectedImprovement
    getter presentationArea
    method constructor
    method updateInkTrailStartPoint
interface DeviceMotionEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter acceleration
    getter accelerationIncludingGravity
    getter interval
    getter rotationRate
    method constructor
interface DeviceMotionEventAcceleration
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter x
    getter y
    getter z
    method constructor
interface DeviceMotionEventRotationRate
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter alpha
    getter beta
    getter gamma
    method constructor
interface DeviceOrientationEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter absolute
    getter alpha
    getter beta
    getter gamma
    method constructor
interface Document : Node
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute @@unscopables
    getter URL
    getter activeElement
    getter adoptedStyleSheets
    getter alinkColor
    getter all
    getter anchors
    getter applets
    getter bgColor
    getter body
    getter characterSet
    getter charset
    getter childElementCount
    getter children
    getter compatMode
    getter contentType
    getter cookie
    getter currentScript
    getter defaultView
    getter designMode
    getter dir
    getter doctype
    getter documentElement
    getter documentURI
    getter domain
    getter embeds
    getter featurePolicy
    getter fgColor
    getter firstElementChild
    getter fonts
    getter forms
    getter fragmentDirective
    getter fullscreen
    getter fullscreenElement
    getter fullscreenEnabled
    getter head
    getter hidden
    getter images
    getter implementation
    getter inputEncoding
    getter lastElementChild
    getter lastModified
    getter linkColor
    getter links
    getter onabort
    getter onanimationend
    getter onanimationiteration
    getter onanimationstart
    getter onauxclick
    getter onbeforecopy
    getter onbeforecut
    getter onbeforeinput
    getter onbeforematch
    getter onbeforepaste
    getter onbeforetoggle
    getter onbeforexrselect
    getter onblur
    getter oncancel
    getter oncanplay
    getter oncanplaythrough
    getter onchange
    getter onclick
    getter onclose
    getter oncontentvisibilityautostatechange
    getter oncontextlost
    getter oncontextmenu
    getter oncontextrestored
    getter oncopy
    getter oncuechange
    getter oncut
    getter ondblclick
    getter ondrag
    getter ondragend
    getter ondragenter
    getter ondragleave
    getter ondragover
    getter ondragstart
    getter ondrop
    getter ondurationchange
    getter onemptied
    getter onended
    getter onerror
    getter onfocus
    getter onformdata
    getter onfreeze
    getter onfullscreenchange
    getter onfullscreenerror
    getter ongotpointercapture
    getter oninput
    getter oninvalid
    getter onkeydown
    getter onkeypress
    getter onkeyup
    getter onload
    getter onloadeddata
    getter onloadedmetadata
    getter onloadstart
    getter onlostpointercapture
    getter onmousedown
    getter onmouseenter
    getter onmouseleave
    getter onmousemove
    getter onmouseout
    getter onmouseover
    getter onmouseup
    getter onmousewheel
    getter onpaste
    getter onpause
    getter onplay
    getter onplaying
    getter onpointercancel
    getter onpointerdown
    getter onpointerenter
    getter onpointerleave
    getter onpointerlockchange
    getter onpointerlockerror
    getter onpointermove
    getter onpointerout
    getter onpointerover
    getter onpointerrawupdate
    getter onpointerup
    getter onprerenderingchange
    getter onprogress
    getter onratechange
    getter onreadystatechange
    getter onreset
    getter onresize
    getter onresume
    getter onscroll
    getter onscrollend
    getter onsearch
    getter onsecuritypolicyviolation
    getter onseeked
    getter onseeking
    getter onselect
    getter onselectionchange
    getter onselectstart
    getter onslotchange
    getter onstalled
    getter onsubmit
    getter onsuspend
    getter ontimeupdate
    getter ontoggle
    getter ontouchcancel
    getter ontouchend
    getter ontouchmove
    getter ontouchstart
    getter ontransitioncancel
    getter ontransitionend
    getter ontransitionrun
    getter ontransitionstart
    getter onvisibilitychange
    getter onvolumechange
    getter onwaiting
    getter onwebkitanimationend
    getter onwebkitanimationiteration
    getter onwebkitanimationstart
    getter onwebkitfullscreenchange
    getter onwebkitfullscreenerror
    getter onwebkittransitionend
    getter onwheel
    getter pictureInPictureElement
    getter pictureInPictureEnabled
    getter plugins
    getter pointerLockElement
    getter prerendering
    getter readyState
    getter referrer
    getter rootElement
    getter scripts
    getter scrollingElement
    getter styleSheets
    getter timeline
    getter title
    getter visibilityState
    getter vlinkColor
    getter wasDiscarded
    getter webkitCurrentFullScreenElement
    getter webkitFullscreenElement
    getter webkitFullscreenEnabled
    getter webkitHidden
    getter webkitIsFullScreen
    getter webkitVisibilityState
    getter xmlEncoding
    getter xmlStandalone
    getter xmlVersion
    method adoptNode
    method append
    method captureEvents
    method caretRangeFromPoint
    method clear
    method close
    method constructor
    method createAttribute
    method createAttributeNS
    method createCDATASection
    method createComment
    method createDocumentFragment
    method createElement
    method createElementNS
    method createEvent
    method createExpression
    method createNSResolver
    method createNodeIterator
    method createProcessingInstruction
    method createRange
    method createTextNode
    method createTreeWalker
    method elementFromPoint
    method elementsFromPoint
    method evaluate
    method execCommand
    method exitFullscreen
    method exitPictureInPicture
    method exitPointerLock
    method getAnimations
    method getElementById
    method getElementsByClassName
    method getElementsByName
    method getElementsByTagName
    method getElementsByTagNameNS
    method getSelection
    method hasFocus
    method importNode
    method open
    method prepend
    method queryCommandEnabled
    method queryCommandIndeterm
    method queryCommandState
    method queryCommandSupported
    method queryCommandValue
    method querySelector
    method querySelectorAll
    method releaseEvents
    method replaceChildren
    method startViewTransition
    method webkitCancelFullScreen
    method webkitExitFullscreen
    method write
    method writeln
    setter adoptedStyleSheets
    setter alinkColor
    setter bgColor
    setter body
    setter cookie
    setter designMode
    setter dir
    setter domain
    setter fgColor
    setter fullscreen
    setter fullscreenElement
    setter fullscreenEnabled
    setter linkColor
    setter onabort
    setter onanimationend
    setter onanimationiteration
    setter onanimationstart
    setter onauxclick
    setter onbeforecopy
    setter onbeforecut
    setter onbeforeinput
    setter onbeforematch
    setter onbeforepaste
    setter onbeforetoggle
    setter onbeforexrselect
    setter onblur
    setter oncancel
    setter oncanplay
    setter oncanplaythrough
    setter onchange
    setter onclick
    setter onclose
    setter oncontentvisibilityautostatechange
    setter oncontextlost
    setter oncontextmenu
    setter oncontextrestored
    setter oncopy
    setter oncuechange
    setter oncut
    setter ondblclick
    setter ondrag
    setter ondragend
    setter ondragenter
    setter ondragleave
    setter ondragover
    setter ondragstart
    setter ondrop
    setter ondurationchange
    setter onemptied
    setter onended
    setter onerror
    setter onfocus
    setter onformdata
    setter onfreeze
    setter onfullscreenchange
    setter onfullscreenerror
    setter ongotpointercapture
    setter oninput
    setter oninvalid
    setter onkeydown
    setter onkeypress
    setter onkeyup
    setter onload
    setter onloadeddata
    setter onloadedmetadata
    setter onloadstart
    setter onlostpointercapture
    setter onmousedown
    setter onmouseenter
    setter onmouseleave
    setter onmousemove
    setter onmouseout
    setter onmouseover
    setter onmouseup
    setter onmousewheel
    setter onpaste
    setter onpause
    setter onplay
    setter onplaying
    setter onpointercancel
    setter onpointerdown
    setter onpointerenter
    setter onpointerleave
    setter onpointerlockchange
    setter onpointerlockerror
    setter onpointermove
    setter onpointerout
    setter onpointerover
    setter onpointerrawupdate
    setter onpointerup
    setter onprerenderingchange
    setter onprogress
    setter onratechange
    setter onreadystatechange
    setter onreset
    setter onresize
    setter onresume
    setter onscroll
    setter onscrollend
    setter onsearch
    setter onsecuritypolicyviolation
    setter onseeked
    setter onseeking
    setter onselect
    setter onselectionchange
    setter onselectstart
    setter onslotchange
    setter onstalled
    setter onsubmit
    setter onsuspend
    setter ontimeupdate
    setter ontoggle
    setter ontouchcancel
    setter ontouchend
    setter ontouchmove
    setter ontouchstart
    setter ontransitioncancel
    setter ontransitionend
    setter ontransitionrun
    setter ontransitionstart
    setter onvisibilitychange
    setter onvolumechange
    setter onwaiting
    setter onwebkitanimationend
    setter onwebkitanimationiteration
    setter onwebkitanimationstart
    setter onwebkitfullscreenchange
    setter onwebkitfullscreenerror
    setter onwebkittransitionend
    setter onwheel
    setter title
    setter vlinkColor
    setter xmlStandalone
    setter xmlVersion
interface DocumentFragment : Node
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute @@unscopables
    getter childElementCount
    getter children
    getter firstElementChild
    getter lastElementChild
    method append
    method constructor
    method getElementById
    method prepend
    method querySelector
    method querySelectorAll
    method replaceChildren
interface DocumentTimeline : AnimationTimeline
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface DocumentType : Node
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute @@unscopables
    getter name
    getter publicId
    getter systemId
    method after
    method before
    method constructor
    method remove
    method replaceWith
interface DragEvent : MouseEvent
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter dataTransfer
    method constructor
interface DynamicsCompressorNode : AudioNode
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter attack
    getter knee
    getter ratio
    getter reduction
    getter release
    getter threshold
    method constructor
interface Element : Node
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute @@unscopables
    getter ariaAtomic
    getter ariaAutoComplete
    getter ariaBrailleLabel
    getter ariaBrailleRoleDescription
    getter ariaBusy
    getter ariaChecked
    getter ariaColCount
    getter ariaColIndex
    getter ariaColSpan
    getter ariaCurrent
    getter ariaDescription
    getter ariaDisabled
    getter ariaExpanded
    getter ariaHasPopup
    getter ariaHidden
    getter ariaInvalid
    getter ariaKeyShortcuts
    getter ariaLabel
    getter ariaLevel
    getter ariaLive
    getter ariaModal
    getter ariaMultiLine
    getter ariaMultiSelectable
    getter ariaOrientation
    getter ariaPlaceholder
    getter ariaPosInSet
    getter ariaPressed
    getter ariaReadOnly
    getter ariaRelevant
    getter ariaRequired
    getter ariaRoleDescription
    getter ariaRowCount
    getter ariaRowIndex
    getter ariaRowSpan
    getter ariaSelected
    getter ariaSetSize
    getter ariaSort
    getter ariaValueMax
    getter ariaValueMin
    getter ariaValueNow
    getter ariaValueText
    getter assignedSlot
    getter attributes
    getter childElementCount
    getter children
    getter classList
    getter className
    getter clientHeight
    getter clientLeft
    getter clientTop
    getter clientWidth
    getter elementTiming
    getter firstElementChild
    getter id
    getter innerHTML
    getter lastElementChild
    getter localName
    getter namespaceURI
    getter nextElementSibling
    getter onbeforecopy
    getter onbeforecut
    getter onbeforepaste
    getter onfullscreenchange
    getter onfullscreenerror
    getter onsearch
    getter onwebkitfullscreenchange
    getter onwebkitfullscreenerror
    getter outerHTML
    getter part
    getter prefix
    getter previousElementSibling
    getter role
    getter scrollHeight
    getter scrollLeft
    getter scrollTop
    getter scrollWidth
    getter shadowRoot
    getter slot
    getter tagName
    method after
    method animate
    method append
    method attachShadow
    method before
    method checkVisibility
    method closest
    method computedStyleMap
    method constructor
    method getAnimations
    method getAttribute
    method getAttributeNS
    method getAttributeNames
    method getAttributeNode
    method getAttributeNodeNS
    method getBoundingClientRect
    method getClientRects
    method getElementsByClassName
    method getElementsByTagName
    method getElementsByTagNameNS
    method getInnerHTML
    method hasAttribute
    method hasAttributeNS
    method hasAttributes
    method hasPointerCapture
    method insertAdjacentElement
    method insertAdjacentHTML
    method insertAdjacentText
    method matches
    method prepend
    method querySelector
    method querySelectorAll
    method releasePointerCapture
    method remove
    method removeAttribute
    method removeAttributeNS
    method removeAttributeNode
    method replaceChildren
    method replaceWith
    method requestFullscreen
    method requestPointerLock
    method scroll
    method scrollBy
    method scrollIntoView
    method scrollIntoViewIfNeeded
    method scrollTo
    method setAttribute
    method setAttributeNS
    method setAttributeNode
    method setAttributeNodeNS
    method setHTML
    method setPointerCapture
    method toggleAttribute
    method webkitMatchesSelector
    method webkitRequestFullScreen
    method webkitRequestFullscreen
    setter ariaAtomic
    setter ariaAutoComplete
    setter ariaBrailleLabel
    setter ariaBrailleRoleDescription
    setter ariaBusy
    setter ariaChecked
    setter ariaColCount
    setter ariaColIndex
    setter ariaColSpan
    setter ariaCurrent
    setter ariaDescription
    setter ariaDisabled
    setter ariaExpanded
    setter ariaHasPopup
    setter ariaHidden
    setter ariaInvalid
    setter ariaKeyShortcuts
    setter ariaLabel
    setter ariaLevel
    setter ariaLive
    setter ariaModal
    setter ariaMultiLine
    setter ariaMultiSelectable
    setter ariaOrientation
    setter ariaPlaceholder
    setter ariaPosInSet
    setter ariaPressed
    setter ariaReadOnly
    setter ariaRelevant
    setter ariaRequired
    setter ariaRoleDescription
    setter ariaRowCount
    setter ariaRowIndex
    setter ariaRowSpan
    setter ariaSelected
    setter ariaSetSize
    setter ariaSort
    setter ariaValueMax
    setter ariaValueMin
    setter ariaValueNow
    setter ariaValueText
    setter classList
    setter className
    setter elementTiming
    setter id
    setter innerHTML
    setter onbeforecopy
    setter onbeforecut
    setter onbeforepaste
    setter onfullscreenchange
    setter onfullscreenerror
    setter onsearch
    setter onwebkitfullscreenchange
    setter onwebkitfullscreenerror
    setter outerHTML
    setter part
    setter role
    setter scrollLeft
    setter scrollTop
    setter slot
interface ElementInternals
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter ariaAtomic
    getter ariaAutoComplete
    getter ariaBrailleLabel
    getter ariaBrailleRoleDescription
    getter ariaBusy
    getter ariaChecked
    getter ariaColCount
    getter ariaColIndex
    getter ariaColSpan
    getter ariaCurrent
    getter ariaDescription
    getter ariaDisabled
    getter ariaExpanded
    getter ariaHasPopup
    getter ariaHidden
    getter ariaInvalid
    getter ariaKeyShortcuts
    getter ariaLabel
    getter ariaLevel
    getter ariaLive
    getter ariaModal
    getter ariaMultiLine
    getter ariaMultiSelectable
    getter ariaOrientation
    getter ariaPlaceholder
    getter ariaPosInSet
    getter ariaPressed
    getter ariaReadOnly
    getter ariaRelevant
    getter ariaRequired
    getter ariaRoleDescription
    getter ariaRowCount
    getter ariaRowIndex
    getter ariaRowSpan
    getter ariaSelected
    getter ariaSetSize
    getter ariaSort
    getter ariaValueMax
    getter ariaValueMin
    getter ariaValueNow
    getter ariaValueText
    getter form
    getter labels
    getter role
    getter shadowRoot
    getter states
    getter validationMessage
    getter validity
    getter willValidate
    method checkValidity
    method constructor
    method reportValidity
    method setFormValue
    method setValidity
    setter ariaAtomic
    setter ariaAutoComplete
    setter ariaBrailleLabel
    setter ariaBrailleRoleDescription
    setter ariaBusy
    setter ariaChecked
    setter ariaColCount
    setter ariaColIndex
    setter ariaColSpan
    setter ariaCurrent
    setter ariaDescription
    setter ariaDisabled
    setter ariaExpanded
    setter ariaHasPopup
    setter ariaHidden
    setter ariaInvalid
    setter ariaKeyShortcuts
    setter ariaLabel
    setter ariaLevel
    setter ariaLive
    setter ariaModal
    setter ariaMultiLine
    setter ariaMultiSelectable
    setter ariaOrientation
    setter ariaPlaceholder
    setter ariaPosInSet
    setter ariaPressed
    setter ariaReadOnly
    setter ariaRelevant
    setter ariaRequired
    setter ariaRoleDescription
    setter ariaRowCount
    setter ariaRowIndex
    setter ariaRowSpan
    setter ariaSelected
    setter ariaSetSize
    setter ariaSort
    setter ariaValueMax
    setter ariaValueMin
    setter ariaValueNow
    setter ariaValueText
    setter role
interface EncodedAudioChunk
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter byteLength
    getter duration
    getter timestamp
    getter type
    method constructor
    method copyTo
interface EncodedVideoChunk
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter byteLength
    getter duration
    getter timestamp
    getter type
    method constructor
    method copyTo
interface ErrorEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter colno
    getter error
    getter filename
    getter lineno
    getter message
    method constructor
interface Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute AT_TARGET
    attribute BUBBLING_PHASE
    attribute CAPTURING_PHASE
    attribute NONE
    getter bubbles
    getter cancelBubble
    getter cancelable
    getter composed
    getter currentTarget
    getter defaultPrevented
    getter eventPhase
    getter returnValue
    getter srcElement
    getter target
    getter timeStamp
    getter type
    method composedPath
    method constructor
    method initEvent
    method preventDefault
    method stopImmediatePropagation
    method stopPropagation
    setter cancelBubble
    setter returnValue
interface EventCounts
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter size
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method entries
    method forEach
    method get
    method has
    method keys
    method values
interface EventSource : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute CLOSED
    attribute CONNECTING
    attribute OPEN
    getter onerror
    getter onmessage
    getter onopen
    getter readyState
    getter url
    getter withCredentials
    method close
    method constructor
    setter onerror
    setter onmessage
    setter onopen
interface EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method addEventListener
    method constructor
    method dispatchEvent
    method removeEventListener
interface External
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method AddSearchProvider
    method IsSearchProviderInstalled
    method constructor
interface EyeDropper
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method open
interface FeaturePolicy
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method allowedFeatures
    method allowsFeature
    method constructor
    method features
    method getAllowlistForFeature
interface FederatedCredential : Credential
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter iconURL
    getter name
    getter protocol
    getter provider
    method constructor
interface File : Blob
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter lastModified
    getter lastModifiedDate
    getter name
    getter webkitRelativePath
    method constructor
interface FileList
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method item
interface FileReader : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute DONE
    attribute EMPTY
    attribute LOADING
    getter error
    getter onabort
    getter onerror
    getter onload
    getter onloadend
    getter onloadstart
    getter onprogress
    getter readyState
    getter result
    method abort
    method constructor
    method readAsArrayBuffer
    method readAsBinaryString
    method readAsDataURL
    method readAsText
    setter onabort
    setter onerror
    setter onload
    setter onloadend
    setter onloadstart
    setter onprogress
interface FileSystemDirectoryHandle : FileSystemHandle
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method @@asyncIterator
    method constructor
    method entries
    method getDirectoryHandle
    method getFileHandle
    method keys
    method removeEntry
    method resolve
    method values
interface FileSystemFileHandle : FileSystemHandle
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method createWritable
    method getFile
    method move
interface FileSystemHandle
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter kind
    getter name
    method constructor
    method isSameEntry
    method queryPermission
    method remove
    method requestPermission
interface FileSystemWritableFileStream : WritableStream
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method seek
    method truncate
    method write
interface FocusEvent : UIEvent
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter relatedTarget
    method constructor
interface FontData
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter family
    getter fullName
    getter postscriptName
    getter style
    method blob
    method constructor
interface FontFace
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter ascentOverride
    getter descentOverride
    getter display
    getter family
    getter featureSettings
    getter lineGapOverride
    getter loaded
    getter sizeAdjust
    getter status
    getter stretch
    getter style
    getter unicodeRange
    getter variant
    getter weight
    method constructor
    method load
    setter ascentOverride
    setter descentOverride
    setter display
    setter family
    setter featureSettings
    setter lineGapOverride
    setter sizeAdjust
    setter stretch
    setter style
    setter unicodeRange
    setter variant
    setter weight
interface FontFaceSetLoadEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter fontfaces
    method constructor
interface FormData
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method @@iterator
    method append
    method constructor
    method delete
    method entries
    method forEach
    method get
    method getAll
    method has
    method keys
    method set
    method values
interface FormDataEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter formData
    method constructor
interface FragmentDirective
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface GPU
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method getPreferredCanvasFormat
    method requestAdapter
interface GPUAdapter
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter features
    getter isFallbackAdapter
    getter limits
    method constructor
    method requestAdapterInfo
    method requestDevice
interface GPUAdapterInfo
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter architecture
    getter description
    getter device
    getter vendor
    method constructor
interface GPUBindGroup
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter label
    method constructor
    setter label
interface GPUBindGroupLayout
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter label
    method constructor
    setter label
interface GPUBuffer
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter label
    getter mapState
    getter size
    getter usage
    method constructor
    method destroy
    method getMappedRange
    method mapAsync
    method unmap
    setter label
interface GPUCanvasContext
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter canvas
    method configure
    method constructor
    method getCurrentTexture
    method unconfigure
interface GPUCommandBuffer
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter label
    method constructor
    setter label
interface GPUCommandEncoder
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter label
    method beginComputePass
    method beginRenderPass
    method clearBuffer
    method constructor
    method copyBufferToBuffer
    method copyBufferToTexture
    method copyTextureToBuffer
    method copyTextureToTexture
    method finish
    method insertDebugMarker
    method popDebugGroup
    method pushDebugGroup
    method resolveQuerySet
    method writeTimestamp
    setter label
interface GPUCompilationInfo
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter messages
    method constructor
interface GPUCompilationMessage
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    getter lineNum
    getter linePos
    getter message
    getter offset
    getter type
    method constructor
interface GPUComputePassEncoder
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter label
    method constructor
    method dispatchWorkgroups
    method dispatchWorkgroupsIndirect
    method end
    method insertDebugMarker
    method popDebugGroup
    method pushDebugGroup
    method setBindGroup
    method setPipeline
    method writeTimestamp
    setter label
interface GPUComputePipeline
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter label
    method constructor
    method getBindGroupLayout
    setter label
interface GPUDevice : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter features
    getter label
    getter limits
    getter lost
    getter onuncapturederror
    getter queue
    method constructor
    method createBindGroup
    method createBindGroupLayout
    method createBuffer
    method createCommandEncoder
    method createComputePipeline
    method createComputePipelineAsync
    method createPipelineLayout
    method createQuerySet
    method createRenderBundleEncoder
    method createRenderPipeline
    method createRenderPipelineAsync
    method createSampler
    method createShaderModule
    method createTexture
    method destroy
    method importExternalTexture
    method popErrorScope
    method pushErrorScope
    setter label
    setter onuncapturederror
interface GPUDeviceLostInfo
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter message
    getter reason
    method constructor
interface GPUError
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter message
    method constructor
interface GPUExternalTexture
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter label
    method constructor
    setter label
interface GPUInternalError : GPUError
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface GPUOutOfMemoryError : GPUError
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface GPUPipelineError : DOMException
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter reason
    method constructor
interface GPUPipelineLayout
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter label
    method constructor
    setter label
interface GPUQuerySet
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter count
    getter label
    getter type
    method constructor
    method destroy
    setter label
interface GPUQueue
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter label
    method constructor
    method copyExternalImageToTexture
    method onSubmittedWorkDone
    method submit
    method writeBuffer
    method writeTexture
    setter label
interface GPURenderBundle
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter label
    method constructor
    setter label
interface GPURenderBundleEncoder
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter label
    method constructor
    method draw
    method drawIndexed
    method drawIndexedIndirect
    method drawIndirect
    method finish
    method insertDebugMarker
    method popDebugGroup
    method pushDebugGroup
    method setBindGroup
    method setIndexBuffer
    method setPipeline
    method setVertexBuffer
    setter label
interface GPURenderPassEncoder
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter label
    method beginOcclusionQuery
    method constructor
    method draw
    method drawIndexed
    method drawIndexedIndirect
    method drawIndirect
    method end
    method endOcclusionQuery
    method executeBundles
    method insertDebugMarker
    method popDebugGroup
    method pushDebugGroup
    method setBindGroup
    method setBlendConstant
    method setIndexBuffer
    method setPipeline
    method setScissorRect
    method setStencilReference
    method setVertexBuffer
    method setViewport
    method writeTimestamp
    setter label
interface GPURenderPipeline
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter label
    method constructor
    method getBindGroupLayout
    setter label
interface GPUSampler
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter label
    method constructor
    setter label
interface GPUShaderModule
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter label
    method constructor
    method getCompilationInfo
    setter label
interface GPUSupportedFeatures
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter size
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method entries
    method forEach
    method has
    method keys
    method values
interface GPUSupportedLimits
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter maxBindGroups
    getter maxBindingsPerBindGroup
    getter maxBufferSize
    getter maxColorAttachmentBytesPerSample
    getter maxColorAttachments
    getter maxComputeInvocationsPerWorkgroup
    getter maxComputeWorkgroupSizeX
    getter maxComputeWorkgroupSizeY
    getter maxComputeWorkgroupSizeZ
    getter maxComputeWorkgroupStorageSize
    getter maxComputeWorkgroupsPerDimension
    getter maxDynamicStorageBuffersPerPipelineLayout
    getter maxDynamicUniformBuffersPerPipelineLayout
    getter maxInterStageShaderComponents
    getter maxInterStageShaderVariables
    getter maxSampledTexturesPerShaderStage
    getter maxSamplersPerShaderStage
    getter maxStorageBufferBindingSize
    getter maxStorageBuffersPerShaderStage
    getter maxStorageTexturesPerShaderStage
    getter maxTextureArrayLayers
    getter maxTextureDimension1D
    getter maxTextureDimension2D
    getter maxTextureDimension3D
    getter maxUniformBufferBindingSize
    getter maxUniformBuffersPerShaderStage
    getter maxVertexAttributes
    getter maxVertexBufferArrayStride
    getter maxVertexBuffers
    getter minStorageBufferOffsetAlignment
    getter minUniformBufferOffsetAlignment
    method constructor
interface GPUTexture
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter depthOrArrayLayers
    getter dimension
    getter format
    getter height
    getter label
    getter mipLevelCount
    getter sampleCount
    getter usage
    getter width
    method constructor
    method createView
    method destroy
    setter label
interface GPUTextureView
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter label
    method constructor
    setter label
interface GPUUncapturedErrorEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter error
    method constructor
interface GPUValidationError : GPUError
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface GainNode : AudioNode
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter gain
    method constructor
interface Gamepad
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter axes
    getter buttons
    getter connected
    getter id
    getter index
    getter mapping
    getter timestamp
    getter vibrationActuator
    method constructor
interface GamepadButton
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter pressed
    getter touched
    getter value
    method constructor
interface GamepadEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter gamepad
    method constructor
interface GamepadHapticActuator
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter type
    method constructor
    method playEffect
    method reset
interface Geolocation
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method clearWatch
    method constructor
    method getCurrentPosition
    method watchPosition
interface GeolocationCoordinates
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter accuracy
    getter altitude
    getter altitudeAccuracy
    getter heading
    getter latitude
    getter longitude
    getter speed
    method constructor
interface GeolocationPosition
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter coords
    getter timestamp
    method constructor
interface GeolocationPositionError
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute PERMISSION_DENIED
    attribute POSITION_UNAVAILABLE
    attribute TIMEOUT
    getter code
    getter message
    method constructor
interface GravitySensor : Accelerometer
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface Gyroscope : Sensor
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter x
    getter y
    getter z
    method constructor
interface HID : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter onconnect
    getter ondisconnect
    method constructor
    method getDevices
    method requestDevice
    setter onconnect
    setter ondisconnect
interface HIDConnectionEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter device
    method constructor
interface HIDDevice : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter collections
    getter oninputreport
    getter opened
    getter productId
    getter productName
    getter vendorId
    method close
    method constructor
    method forget
    method open
    method receiveFeatureReport
    method sendFeatureReport
    method sendReport
    setter oninputreport
interface HIDInputReportEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter data
    getter device
    getter reportId
    method constructor
interface HTMLAllCollection
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method item
    method namedItem
interface HTMLAnchorElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter charset
    getter coords
    getter download
    getter hash
    getter host
    getter hostname
    getter href
    getter hrefTranslate
    getter hreflang
    getter name
    getter origin
    getter password
    getter pathname
    getter ping
    getter port
    getter protocol
    getter referrerPolicy
    getter rel
    getter relList
    getter rev
    getter search
    getter shape
    getter target
    getter text
    getter type
    getter username
    method constructor
    method toString
    setter charset
    setter coords
    setter download
    setter hash
    setter host
    setter hostname
    setter href
    setter hrefTranslate
    setter hreflang
    setter name
    setter password
    setter pathname
    setter ping
    setter port
    setter protocol
    setter referrerPolicy
    setter rel
    setter relList
    setter rev
    setter search
    setter shape
    setter target
    setter text
    setter type
    setter username
interface HTMLAreaElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter alt
    getter coords
    getter download
    getter hash
    getter host
    getter hostname
    getter href
    getter noHref
    getter origin
    getter password
    getter pathname
    getter ping
    getter port
    getter protocol
    getter referrerPolicy
    getter rel
    getter relList
    getter search
    getter shape
    getter target
    getter username
    method constructor
    method toString
    setter alt
    setter coords
    setter download
    setter hash
    setter host
    setter hostname
    setter href
    setter noHref
    setter password
    setter pathname
    setter ping
    setter port
    setter protocol
    setter referrerPolicy
    setter rel
    setter relList
    setter search
    setter shape
    setter target
    setter username
interface HTMLAudioElement : HTMLMediaElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface HTMLBRElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter clear
    method constructor
    setter clear
interface HTMLBaseElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter href
    getter target
    method constructor
    setter href
    setter target
interface HTMLBodyElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter aLink
    getter background
    getter bgColor
    getter link
    getter onafterprint
    getter onbeforeprint
    getter onbeforeunload
    getter onblur
    getter onerror
    getter onfocus
    getter onhashchange
    getter onlanguagechange
    getter onload
    getter onmessage
    getter onmessageerror
    getter onoffline
    getter ononline
    getter onpagehide
    getter onpageshow
    getter onpopstate
    getter onrejectionhandled
    getter onresize
    getter onscroll
    getter onstorage
    getter onunhandledrejection
    getter onunload
    getter text
    getter vLink
    method constructor
    setter aLink
    setter background
    setter bgColor
    setter link
    setter onafterprint
    setter onbeforeprint
    setter onbeforeunload
    setter onblur
    setter onerror
    setter onfocus
    setter onhashchange
    setter onlanguagechange
    setter onload
    setter onmessage
    setter onmessageerror
    setter onoffline
    setter ononline
    setter onpagehide
    setter onpageshow
    setter onpopstate
    setter onrejectionhandled
    setter onresize
    setter onscroll
    setter onstorage
    setter onunhandledrejection
    setter onunload
    setter text
    setter vLink
interface HTMLButtonElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter disabled
    getter form
    getter formAction
    getter formEnctype
    getter formMethod
    getter formNoValidate
    getter formTarget
    getter labels
    getter name
    getter popoverTargetAction
    getter popoverTargetElement
    getter type
    getter validationMessage
    getter validity
    getter value
    getter willValidate
    method checkValidity
    method constructor
    method reportValidity
    method setCustomValidity
    setter disabled
    setter formAction
    setter formEnctype
    setter formMethod
    setter formNoValidate
    setter formTarget
    setter name
    setter popoverTargetAction
    setter popoverTargetElement
    setter type
    setter value
interface HTMLCanvasElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter height
    getter width
    method captureStream
    method constructor
    method getContext
    method toBlob
    method toDataURL
    method transferControlToOffscreen
    setter height
    setter width
interface HTMLCollection
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method item
    method namedItem
interface HTMLDListElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter compact
    method constructor
    setter compact
interface HTMLDataElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter value
    method constructor
    setter value
interface HTMLDataListElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter options
    method constructor
interface HTMLDetailsElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter open
    method constructor
    setter open
interface HTMLDialogElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter open
    getter returnValue
    method close
    method constructor
    method show
    method showModal
    setter open
    setter returnValue
interface HTMLDirectoryElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter compact
    method constructor
    setter compact
interface HTMLDivElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter align
    method constructor
    setter align
interface HTMLDocument : Document
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface HTMLElement : Element
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter accessKey
    getter attributeStyleMap
    getter autocapitalize
    getter autofocus
    getter contentEditable
    getter dataset
    getter dir
    getter draggable
    getter enterKeyHint
    getter hidden
    getter inert
    getter innerText
    getter inputMode
    getter isContentEditable
    getter lang
    getter nonce
    getter offsetHeight
    getter offsetLeft
    getter offsetParent
    getter offsetTop
    getter offsetWidth
    getter onabort
    getter onanimationend
    getter onanimationiteration
    getter onanimationstart
    getter onauxclick
    getter onbeforeinput
    getter onbeforematch
    getter onbeforetoggle
    getter onbeforexrselect
    getter onblur
    getter oncancel
    getter oncanplay
    getter oncanplaythrough
    getter onchange
    getter onclick
    getter onclose
    getter oncontentvisibilityautostatechange
    getter oncontextlost
    getter oncontextmenu
    getter oncontextrestored
    getter oncopy
    getter oncuechange
    getter oncut
    getter ondblclick
    getter ondrag
    getter ondragend
    getter ondragenter
    getter ondragleave
    getter ondragover
    getter ondragstart
    getter ondrop
    getter ondurationchange
    getter onemptied
    getter onended
    getter onerror
    getter onfocus
    getter onformdata
    getter ongotpointercapture
    getter oninput
    getter oninvalid
    getter onkeydown
    getter onkeypress
    getter onkeyup
    getter onload
    getter onloadeddata
    getter onloadedmetadata
    getter onloadstart
    getter onlostpointercapture
    getter onmousedown
    getter onmouseenter
    getter onmouseleave
    getter onmousemove
    getter onmouseout
    getter onmouseover
    getter onmouseup
    getter onmousewheel
    getter onpaste
    getter onpause
    getter onplay
    getter onplaying
    getter onpointercancel
    getter onpointerdown
    getter onpointerenter
    getter onpointerleave
    getter onpointermove
    getter onpointerout
    getter onpointerover
    getter onpointerrawupdate
    getter onpointerup
    getter onprogress
    getter onratechange
    getter onreset
    getter onresize
    getter onscroll
    getter onscrollend
    getter onsecuritypolicyviolation
    getter onseeked
    getter onseeking
    getter onselect
    getter onselectionchange
    getter onselectstart
    getter onslotchange
    getter onstalled
    getter onsubmit
    getter onsuspend
    getter ontimeupdate
    getter ontoggle
    getter ontouchcancel
    getter ontouchend
    getter ontouchmove
    getter ontouchstart
    getter ontransitioncancel
    getter ontransitionend
    getter ontransitionrun
    getter ontransitionstart
    getter onvolumechange
    getter onwaiting
    getter onwebkitanimationend
    getter onwebkitanimationiteration
    getter onwebkitanimationstart
    getter onwebkittransitionend
    getter onwheel
    getter outerText
    getter popover
    getter spellcheck
    getter style
    getter tabIndex
    getter title
    getter translate
    getter virtualKeyboardPolicy
    method attachInternals
    method blur
    method click
    method constructor
    method focus
    method hidePopover
    method showPopover
    method togglePopover
    setter accessKey
    setter autocapitalize
    setter autofocus
    setter contentEditable
    setter dir
    setter draggable
    setter enterKeyHint
    setter hidden
    setter inert
    setter innerText
    setter inputMode
    setter lang
    setter nonce
    setter onabort
    setter onanimationend
    setter onanimationiteration
    setter onanimationstart
    setter onauxclick
    setter onbeforeinput
    setter onbeforematch
    setter onbeforetoggle
    setter onbeforexrselect
    setter onblur
    setter oncancel
    setter oncanplay
    setter oncanplaythrough
    setter onchange
    setter onclick
    setter onclose
    setter oncontentvisibilityautostatechange
    setter oncontextlost
    setter oncontextmenu
    setter oncontextrestored
    setter oncopy
    setter oncuechange
    setter oncut
    setter ondblclick
    setter ondrag
    setter ondragend
    setter ondragenter
    setter ondragleave
    setter ondragover
    setter ondragstart
    setter ondrop
    setter ondurationchange
    setter onemptied
    setter onended
    setter onerror
    setter onfocus
    setter onformdata
    setter ongotpointercapture
    setter oninput
    setter oninvalid
    setter onkeydown
    setter onkeypress
    setter onkeyup
    setter onload
    setter onloadeddata
    setter onloadedmetadata
    setter onloadstart
    setter onlostpointercapture
    setter onmousedown
    setter onmouseenter
    setter onmouseleave
    setter onmousemove
    setter onmouseout
    setter onmouseover
    setter onmouseup
    setter onmousewheel
    setter onpaste
    setter onpause
    setter onplay
    setter onplaying
    setter onpointercancel
    setter onpointerdown
    setter onpointerenter
    setter onpointerleave
    setter onpointermove
    setter onpointerout
    setter onpointerover
    setter onpointerrawupdate
    setter onpointerup
    setter onprogress
    setter onratechange
    setter onreset
    setter onresize
    setter onscroll
    setter onscrollend
    setter onsecuritypolicyviolation
    setter onseeked
    setter onseeking
    setter onselect
    setter onselectionchange
    setter onselectstart
    setter onslotchange
    setter onstalled
    setter onsubmit
    setter onsuspend
    setter ontimeupdate
    setter ontoggle
    setter ontouchcancel
    setter ontouchend
    setter ontouchmove
    setter ontouchstart
    setter ontransitioncancel
    setter ontransitionend
    setter ontransitionrun
    setter ontransitionstart
    setter onvolumechange
    setter onwaiting
    setter onwebkitanimationend
    setter onwebkitanimationiteration
    setter onwebkitanimationstart
    setter onwebkittransitionend
    setter onwheel
    setter outerText
    setter popover
    setter spellcheck
    setter style
    setter tabIndex
    setter title
    setter translate
    setter virtualKeyboardPolicy
interface HTMLEmbedElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter align
    getter height
    getter name
    getter src
    getter type
    getter width
    method constructor
    method getSVGDocument
    setter align
    setter height
    setter name
    setter src
    setter type
    setter width
interface HTMLFieldSetElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter disabled
    getter elements
    getter form
    getter name
    getter type
    getter validationMessage
    getter validity
    getter willValidate
    method checkValidity
    method constructor
    method reportValidity
    method setCustomValidity
    setter disabled
    setter name
interface HTMLFontElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter color
    getter face
    getter size
    method constructor
    setter color
    setter face
    setter size
interface HTMLFormControlsCollection : HTMLCollection
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method namedItem
interface HTMLFormElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter acceptCharset
    getter action
    getter autocomplete
    getter elements
    getter encoding
    getter enctype
    getter length
    getter method
    getter name
    getter noValidate
    getter rel
    getter relList
    getter target
    method @@iterator
    method checkValidity
    method constructor
    method reportValidity
    method requestSubmit
    method reset
    method submit
    setter acceptCharset
    setter action
    setter autocomplete
    setter encoding
    setter enctype
    setter method
    setter name
    setter noValidate
    setter rel
    setter relList
    setter target
interface HTMLFrameElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter contentDocument
    getter contentWindow
    getter frameBorder
    getter longDesc
    getter marginHeight
    getter marginWidth
    getter name
    getter noResize
    getter scrolling
    getter src
    method constructor
    setter frameBorder
    setter longDesc
    setter marginHeight
    setter marginWidth
    setter name
    setter noResize
    setter scrolling
    setter src
interface HTMLFrameSetElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter cols
    getter onafterprint
    getter onbeforeprint
    getter onbeforeunload
    getter onblur
    getter onerror
    getter onfocus
    getter onhashchange
    getter onlanguagechange
    getter onload
    getter onmessage
    getter onmessageerror
    getter onoffline
    getter ononline
    getter onpagehide
    getter onpageshow
    getter onpopstate
    getter onrejectionhandled
    getter onresize
    getter onscroll
    getter onstorage
    getter onunhandledrejection
    getter onunload
    getter rows
    method constructor
    setter cols
    setter onafterprint
    setter onbeforeprint
    setter onbeforeunload
    setter onblur
    setter onerror
    setter onfocus
    setter onhashchange
    setter onlanguagechange
    setter onload
    setter onmessage
    setter onmessageerror
    setter onoffline
    setter ononline
    setter onpagehide
    setter onpageshow
    setter onpopstate
    setter onrejectionhandled
    setter onresize
    setter onscroll
    setter onstorage
    setter onunhandledrejection
    setter onunload
    setter rows
interface HTMLHRElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter align
    getter color
    getter noShade
    getter size
    getter width
    method constructor
    setter align
    setter color
    setter noShade
    setter size
    setter width
interface HTMLHeadElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface HTMLHeadingElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter align
    method constructor
    setter align
interface HTMLHtmlElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter version
    method constructor
    setter version
interface HTMLIFrameElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter align
    getter allow
    getter allowFullscreen
    getter allowPaymentRequest
    getter contentDocument
    getter contentWindow
    getter credentialless
    getter csp
    getter featurePolicy
    getter frameBorder
    getter height
    getter loading
    getter longDesc
    getter marginHeight
    getter marginWidth
    getter name
    getter referrerPolicy
    getter sandbox
    getter scrolling
    getter src
    getter srcdoc
    getter width
    method constructor
    method getSVGDocument
    setter align
    setter allow
    setter allowFullscreen
    setter allowPaymentRequest
    setter credentialless
    setter csp
    setter frameBorder
    setter height
    setter loading
    setter longDesc
    setter marginHeight
    setter marginWidth
    setter name
    setter referrerPolicy
    setter sandbox
    setter scrolling
    setter src
    setter srcdoc
    setter width
interface HTMLImageElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter align
    getter alt
    getter border
    getter complete
    getter crossOrigin
    getter currentSrc
    getter decoding
    getter fetchPriority
    getter height
    getter hspace
    getter isMap
    getter loading
    getter longDesc
    getter lowsrc
    getter name
    getter naturalHeight
    getter naturalWidth
    getter referrerPolicy
    getter sizes
    getter src
    getter srcset
    getter useMap
    getter vspace
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
    method decode
    setter align
    setter alt
    setter border
    setter crossOrigin
    setter decoding
    setter fetchPriority
    setter height
    setter hspace
    setter isMap
    setter loading
    setter longDesc
    setter lowsrc
    setter name
    setter referrerPolicy
    setter sizes
    setter src
    setter srcset
    setter useMap
    setter vspace
    setter width
interface HTMLInputElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter accept
    getter align
    getter alt
    getter autocomplete
    getter checked
    getter defaultChecked
    getter defaultValue
    getter dirName
    getter disabled
    getter files
    getter form
    getter formAction
    getter formEnctype
    getter formMethod
    getter formNoValidate
    getter formTarget
    getter height
    getter incremental
    getter indeterminate
    getter labels
    getter list
    getter max
    getter maxLength
    getter min
    getter minLength
    getter multiple
    getter name
    getter pattern
    getter placeholder
    getter popoverTargetAction
    getter popoverTargetElement
    getter readOnly
    getter required
    getter selectionDirection
    getter selectionEnd
    getter selectionStart
    getter size
    getter src
    getter step
    getter type
    getter useMap
    getter validationMessage
    getter validity
    getter value
    getter valueAsDate
    getter valueAsNumber
    getter webkitEntries
    getter webkitdirectory
    getter width
    getter willValidate
    method checkValidity
    method constructor
    method reportValidity
    method select
    method setCustomValidity
    method setRangeText
    method setSelectionRange
    method showPicker
    method stepDown
    method stepUp
    setter accept
    setter align
    setter alt
    setter autocomplete
    setter checked
    setter defaultChecked
    setter defaultValue
    setter dirName
    setter disabled
    setter files
    setter formAction
    setter formEnctype
    setter formMethod
    setter formNoValidate
    setter formTarget
    setter height
    setter incremental
    setter indeterminate
    setter max
    setter maxLength
    setter min
    setter minLength
    setter multiple
    setter name
    setter pattern
    setter placeholder
    setter popoverTargetAction
    setter popoverTargetElement
    setter readOnly
    setter required
    setter selectionDirection
    setter selectionEnd
    setter selectionStart
    setter size
    setter src
    setter step
    setter type
    setter useMap
    setter value
    setter valueAsDate
    setter valueAsNumber
    setter webkitdirectory
    setter width
interface HTMLLIElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter type
    getter value
    method constructor
    setter type
    setter value
interface HTMLLabelElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter control
    getter form
    getter htmlFor
    method constructor
    setter htmlFor
interface HTMLLegendElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter align
    getter form
    method constructor
    setter align
interface HTMLLinkElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter as
    getter blocking
    getter charset
    getter crossOrigin
    getter disabled
    getter fetchPriority
    getter href
    getter hreflang
    getter imageSizes
    getter imageSrcset
    getter integrity
    getter media
    getter referrerPolicy
    getter rel
    getter relList
    getter rev
    getter sheet
    getter sizes
    getter target
    getter type
    method constructor
    setter as
    setter blocking
    setter charset
    setter crossOrigin
    setter disabled
    setter fetchPriority
    setter href
    setter hreflang
    setter imageSizes
    setter imageSrcset
    setter integrity
    setter media
    setter referrerPolicy
    setter rel
    setter relList
    setter rev
    setter sizes
    setter target
    setter type
interface HTMLMapElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter areas
    getter name
    method constructor
    setter name
interface HTMLMarqueeElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter behavior
    getter bgColor
    getter direction
    getter height
    getter hspace
    getter loop
    getter scrollAmount
    getter scrollDelay
    getter trueSpeed
    getter vspace
    getter width
    method constructor
    method start
    method stop
    setter behavior
    setter bgColor
    setter direction
    setter height
    setter hspace
    setter loop
    setter scrollAmount
    setter scrollDelay
    setter trueSpeed
    setter vspace
    setter width
interface HTMLMediaElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute HAVE_CURRENT_DATA
    attribute HAVE_ENOUGH_DATA
    attribute HAVE_FUTURE_DATA
    attribute HAVE_METADATA
    attribute HAVE_NOTHING
    attribute NETWORK_EMPTY
    attribute NETWORK_IDLE
    attribute NETWORK_LOADING
    attribute NETWORK_NO_SOURCE
    getter autoplay
    getter buffered
    getter controls
    getter controlsList
    getter crossOrigin
    getter currentSrc
    getter currentTime
    getter defaultMuted
    getter defaultPlaybackRate
    getter disableRemotePlayback
    getter duration
    getter ended
    getter error
    getter loop
    getter mediaKeys
    getter muted
    getter networkState
    getter onencrypted
    getter onwaitingforkey
    getter paused
    getter playbackRate
    getter played
    getter preload
    getter preservesPitch
    getter readyState
    getter remote
    getter seekable
    getter seeking
    getter sinkId
    getter src
    getter srcObject
    getter textTracks
    getter volume
    getter webkitAudioDecodedByteCount
    getter webkitVideoDecodedByteCount
    method addTextTrack
    method canPlayType
    method captureStream
    method constructor
    method load
    method pause
    method play
    method setMediaKeys
    method setSinkId
    setter autoplay
    setter controls
    setter controlsList
    setter crossOrigin
    setter currentTime
    setter defaultMuted
    setter defaultPlaybackRate
    setter disableRemotePlayback
    setter loop
    setter muted
    setter onencrypted
    setter onwaitingforkey
    setter playbackRate
    setter preload
    setter preservesPitch
    setter src
    setter srcObject
    setter volume
interface HTMLMenuElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter compact
    method constructor
    setter compact
interface HTMLMetaElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter content
    getter httpEquiv
    getter media
    getter name
    getter scheme
    method constructor
    setter content
    setter httpEquiv
    setter media
    setter name
    setter scheme
interface HTMLMeterElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter high
    getter labels
    getter low
    getter max
    getter min
    getter optimum
    getter value
    method constructor
    setter high
    setter low
    setter max
    setter min
    setter optimum
    setter value
interface HTMLModElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter cite
    getter dateTime
    method constructor
    setter cite
    setter dateTime
interface HTMLOListElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter compact
    getter reversed
    getter start
    getter type
    method constructor
    setter compact
    setter reversed
    setter start
    setter type
interface HTMLObjectElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter align
    getter archive
    getter border
    getter code
    getter codeBase
    getter codeType
    getter contentDocument
    getter contentWindow
    getter data
    getter declare
    getter form
    getter height
    getter hspace
    getter name
    getter standby
    getter type
    getter useMap
    getter validationMessage
    getter validity
    getter vspace
    getter width
    getter willValidate
    method checkValidity
    method constructor
    method getSVGDocument
    method reportValidity
    method setCustomValidity
    setter align
    setter archive
    setter border
    setter code
    setter codeBase
    setter codeType
    setter data
    setter declare
    setter height
    setter hspace
    setter name
    setter standby
    setter type
    setter useMap
    setter vspace
    setter width
interface HTMLOptGroupElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter disabled
    getter label
    method constructor
    setter disabled
    setter label
interface HTMLOptionElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter defaultSelected
    getter disabled
    getter form
    getter index
    getter label
    getter selected
    getter text
    getter value
    method constructor
    setter defaultSelected
    setter disabled
    setter label
    setter selected
    setter text
    setter value
interface HTMLOptionsCollection : HTMLCollection
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    getter selectedIndex
    method @@iterator
    method add
    method constructor
    method remove
    setter length
    setter selectedIndex
interface HTMLOutputElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter defaultValue
    getter form
    getter htmlFor
    getter labels
    getter name
    getter type
    getter validationMessage
    getter validity
    getter value
    getter willValidate
    method checkValidity
    method constructor
    method reportValidity
    method setCustomValidity
    setter defaultValue
    setter htmlFor
    setter name
    setter value
interface HTMLParagraphElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter align
    method constructor
    setter align
interface HTMLParamElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter name
    getter type
    getter value
    getter valueType
    method constructor
    setter name
    setter type
    setter value
    setter valueType
interface HTMLPictureElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface HTMLPreElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter width
    method constructor
    setter width
interface HTMLProgressElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter labels
    getter max
    getter position
    getter value
    method constructor
    setter max
    setter value
interface HTMLQuoteElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter cite
    method constructor
    setter cite
interface HTMLScriptElement : HTMLElement
    static method supports
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter async
    getter blocking
    getter charset
    getter crossOrigin
    getter defer
    getter event
    getter fetchPriority
    getter htmlFor
    getter integrity
    getter noModule
    getter referrerPolicy
    getter src
    getter text
    getter type
    method constructor
    setter async
    setter blocking
    setter charset
    setter crossOrigin
    setter defer
    setter event
    setter fetchPriority
    setter htmlFor
    setter integrity
    setter noModule
    setter referrerPolicy
    setter src
    setter text
    setter type
interface HTMLSelectElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter autocomplete
    getter disabled
    getter form
    getter labels
    getter length
    getter multiple
    getter name
    getter options
    getter required
    getter selectedIndex
    getter selectedOptions
    getter size
    getter type
    getter validationMessage
    getter validity
    getter value
    getter willValidate
    method @@iterator
    method add
    method checkValidity
    method constructor
    method item
    method namedItem
    method remove
    method reportValidity
    method setCustomValidity
    setter autocomplete
    setter disabled
    setter length
    setter multiple
    setter name
    setter required
    setter selectedIndex
    setter size
    setter value
interface HTMLSlotElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter name
    method assign
    method assignedElements
    method assignedNodes
    method constructor
    setter name
interface HTMLSourceElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter height
    getter media
    getter sizes
    getter src
    getter srcset
    getter type
    getter width
    method constructor
    setter height
    setter media
    setter sizes
    setter src
    setter srcset
    setter type
    setter width
interface HTMLSpanElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface HTMLStyleElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter blocking
    getter disabled
    getter media
    getter sheet
    getter type
    method constructor
    setter blocking
    setter disabled
    setter media
    setter type
interface HTMLTableCaptionElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter align
    method constructor
    setter align
interface HTMLTableCellElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter abbr
    getter align
    getter axis
    getter bgColor
    getter cellIndex
    getter ch
    getter chOff
    getter colSpan
    getter headers
    getter height
    getter noWrap
    getter rowSpan
    getter scope
    getter vAlign
    getter width
    method constructor
    setter abbr
    setter align
    setter axis
    setter bgColor
    setter ch
    setter chOff
    setter colSpan
    setter headers
    setter height
    setter noWrap
    setter rowSpan
    setter scope
    setter vAlign
    setter width
interface HTMLTableColElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter align
    getter ch
    getter chOff
    getter span
    getter vAlign
    getter width
    method constructor
    setter align
    setter ch
    setter chOff
    setter span
    setter vAlign
    setter width
interface HTMLTableElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter align
    getter bgColor
    getter border
    getter caption
    getter cellPadding
    getter cellSpacing
    getter frame
    getter rows
    getter rules
    getter summary
    getter tBodies
    getter tFoot
    getter tHead
    getter width
    method constructor
    method createCaption
    method createTBody
    method createTFoot
    method createTHead
    method deleteCaption
    method deleteRow
    method deleteTFoot
    method deleteTHead
    method insertRow
    setter align
    setter bgColor
    setter border
    setter caption
    setter cellPadding
    setter cellSpacing
    setter frame
    setter rules
    setter summary
    setter tFoot
    setter tHead
    setter width
interface HTMLTableRowElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter align
    getter bgColor
    getter cells
    getter ch
    getter chOff
    getter rowIndex
    getter sectionRowIndex
    getter vAlign
    method constructor
    method deleteCell
    method insertCell
    setter align
    setter bgColor
    setter ch
    setter chOff
    setter vAlign
interface HTMLTableSectionElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter align
    getter ch
    getter chOff
    getter rows
    getter vAlign
    method constructor
    method deleteRow
    method insertRow
    setter align
    setter ch
    setter chOff
    setter vAlign
interface HTMLTemplateElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter content
    getter shadowRoot
    getter shadowRootMode
    method constructor
    setter shadowRootMode
interface HTMLTextAreaElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter autocomplete
    getter cols
    getter defaultValue
    getter dirName
    getter disabled
    getter form
    getter labels
    getter maxLength
    getter minLength
    getter name
    getter placeholder
    getter readOnly
    getter required
    getter rows
    getter selectionDirection
    getter selectionEnd
    getter selectionStart
    getter textLength
    getter type
    getter validationMessage
    getter validity
    getter value
    getter willValidate
    getter wrap
    method checkValidity
    method constructor
    method reportValidity
    method select
    method setCustomValidity
    method setRangeText
    method setSelectionRange
    setter autocomplete
    setter cols
    setter defaultValue
    setter dirName
    setter disabled
    setter maxLength
    setter minLength
    setter name
    setter placeholder
    setter readOnly
    setter required
    setter rows
    setter selectionDirection
    setter selectionEnd
    setter selectionStart
    setter value
    setter wrap
interface HTMLTimeElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter dateTime
    method constructor
    setter dateTime
interface HTMLTitleElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter text
    method constructor
    setter text
interface HTMLTrackElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute ERROR
    attribute LOADED
    attribute LOADING
    attribute NONE
    getter default
    getter kind
    getter label
    getter readyState
    getter src
    getter srclang
    getter track
    method constructor
    setter default
    setter kind
    setter label
    setter src
    setter srclang
interface HTMLUListElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter compact
    getter type
    method constructor
    setter compact
    setter type
interface HTMLUnknownElement : HTMLElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface HTMLVideoElement : HTMLMediaElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter disablePictureInPicture
    getter height
    getter onenterpictureinpicture
    getter onleavepictureinpicture
    getter playsInline
    getter poster
    getter videoHeight
    getter videoWidth
    getter webkitDecodedFrameCount
    getter webkitDisplayingFullscreen
    getter webkitDroppedFrameCount
    getter webkitSupportsFullscreen
    getter width
    method cancelVideoFrameCallback
    method constructor
    method getVideoPlaybackQuality
    method requestPictureInPicture
    method requestVideoFrameCallback
    method webkitEnterFullScreen
    method webkitEnterFullscreen
    method webkitExitFullScreen
    method webkitExitFullscreen
    setter disablePictureInPicture
    setter height
    setter onenterpictureinpicture
    setter onleavepictureinpicture
    setter playsInline
    setter poster
    setter width
interface HashChangeEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter newURL
    getter oldURL
    method constructor
interface Headers
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method @@iterator
    method append
    method constructor
    method delete
    method entries
    method forEach
    method get
    method getSetCookie
    method has
    method keys
    method set
    method values
interface Highlight
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter priority
    getter size
    getter type
    method @@iterator
    method add
    method clear
    method constructor
    method delete
    method entries
    method forEach
    method has
    method keys
    method values
    setter priority
    setter type
interface HighlightRegistry
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter size
    method @@iterator
    method clear
    method constructor
    method delete
    method entries
    method forEach
    method get
    method has
    method keys
    method set
    method values
interface History
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    getter scrollRestoration
    getter state
    method back
    method constructor
    method forward
    method go
    method pushState
    method replaceState
    setter scrollRestoration
interface IDBCursor
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter direction
    getter key
    getter primaryKey
    getter request
    getter source
    method advance
    method constructor
    method continue
    method continuePrimaryKey
    method delete
    method update
interface IDBCursorWithValue : IDBCursor
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter value
    method constructor
interface IDBDatabase : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter name
    getter objectStoreNames
    getter onabort
    getter onclose
    getter onerror
    getter onversionchange
    getter version
    method close
    method constructor
    method createObjectStore
    method deleteObjectStore
    method transaction
    setter onabort
    setter onclose
    setter onerror
    setter onversionchange
interface IDBFactory
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method cmp
    method constructor
    method databases
    method deleteDatabase
    method open
interface IDBIndex
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter keyPath
    getter multiEntry
    getter name
    getter objectStore
    getter unique
    method constructor
    method count
    method get
    method getAll
    method getAllKeys
    method getKey
    method openCursor
    method openKeyCursor
    setter name
interface IDBKeyRange
    static method bound
    static method lowerBound
    static method only
    static method upperBound
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter lower
    getter lowerOpen
    getter upper
    getter upperOpen
    method constructor
    method includes
interface IDBObjectStore
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter autoIncrement
    getter indexNames
    getter keyPath
    getter name
    getter transaction
    method add
    method clear
    method constructor
    method count
    method createIndex
    method delete
    method deleteIndex
    method get
    method getAll
    method getAllKeys
    method getKey
    method index
    method openCursor
    method openKeyCursor
    method put
    setter name
interface IDBOpenDBRequest : IDBRequest
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter onblocked
    getter onupgradeneeded
    method constructor
    setter onblocked
    setter onupgradeneeded
interface IDBRequest : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter error
    getter onerror
    getter onsuccess
    getter readyState
    getter result
    getter source
    getter transaction
    method constructor
    setter onerror
    setter onsuccess
interface IDBTransaction : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter db
    getter durability
    getter error
    getter mode
    getter objectStoreNames
    getter onabort
    getter oncomplete
    getter onerror
    method abort
    method commit
    method constructor
    method objectStore
    setter onabort
    setter oncomplete
    setter onerror
interface IDBVersionChangeEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter dataLoss
    getter dataLossMessage
    getter newVersion
    getter oldVersion
    method constructor
interface IIRFilterNode : AudioNode
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method getFrequencyResponse
interface IdentityCredential : Credential
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter token
    method constructor
interface IdleDeadline
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter didTimeout
    method constructor
    method timeRemaining
interface IdleDetector : EventTarget
    static method requestPermission
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter onchange
    getter screenState
    getter userState
    method constructor
    method start
    setter onchange
interface Image
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter align
    getter alt
    getter border
    getter complete
    getter crossOrigin
    getter currentSrc
    getter decoding
    getter fetchPriority
    getter height
    getter hspace
    getter isMap
    getter loading
    getter longDesc
    getter lowsrc
    getter name
    getter naturalHeight
    getter naturalWidth
    getter referrerPolicy
    getter sizes
    getter src
    getter srcset
    getter useMap
    getter vspace
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
    method decode
    setter align
    setter alt
    setter border
    setter crossOrigin
    setter decoding
    setter fetchPriority
    setter height
    setter hspace
    setter isMap
    setter loading
    setter longDesc
    setter lowsrc
    setter name
    setter referrerPolicy
    setter sizes
    setter src
    setter srcset
    setter useMap
    setter vspace
    setter width
interface ImageBitmap
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter height
    getter width
    method close
    method constructor
interface ImageBitmapRenderingContext
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter canvas
    method constructor
    method transferFromImageBitmap
interface ImageCapture
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter track
    method constructor
    method getPhotoCapabilities
    method getPhotoSettings
    method grabFrame
    method takePhoto
interface ImageData
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter colorSpace
    getter data
    getter height
    getter width
    method constructor
interface ImageDecoder
    static method isTypeSupported
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter complete
    getter completed
    getter tracks
    getter type
    method close
    method constructor
    method decode
    method reset
interface ImageTrack
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter animated
    getter frameCount
    getter repetitionCount
    getter selected
    method constructor
    setter selected
interface ImageTrackList
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    getter ready
    getter selectedIndex
    getter selectedTrack
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
interface Ink
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method requestPresenter
interface InputDeviceCapabilities
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter firesTouchEvents
    method constructor
interface InputDeviceInfo : MediaDeviceInfo
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method getCapabilities
interface InputEvent : UIEvent
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter data
    getter dataTransfer
    getter inputType
    getter isComposing
    method constructor
    method getTargetRanges
interface IntersectionObserver
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter delay
    getter root
    getter rootMargin
    getter thresholds
    getter trackVisibility
    method constructor
    method disconnect
    method observe
    method takeRecords
    method unobserve
interface IntersectionObserverEntry
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter boundingClientRect
    getter intersectionRatio
    getter intersectionRect
    getter isIntersecting
    getter isVisible
    getter rootBounds
    getter target
    getter time
    method constructor
interface Keyboard
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method getLayoutMap
    method lock
    method unlock
interface KeyboardEvent : UIEvent
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute DOM_KEY_LOCATION_LEFT
    attribute DOM_KEY_LOCATION_NUMPAD
    attribute DOM_KEY_LOCATION_RIGHT
    attribute DOM_KEY_LOCATION_STANDARD
    getter altKey
    getter charCode
    getter code
    getter ctrlKey
    getter isComposing
    getter key
    getter keyCode
    getter location
    getter metaKey
    getter repeat
    getter shiftKey
    method constructor
    method getModifierState
    method initKeyboardEvent
interface KeyboardLayoutMap
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter size
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method entries
    method forEach
    method get
    method has
    method keys
    method values
interface KeyframeEffect : AnimationEffect
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter composite
    getter pseudoElement
    getter target
    method constructor
    method getKeyframes
    method setKeyframes
    setter composite
    setter pseudoElement
    setter target
interface LargestContentfulPaint : PerformanceEntry
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter element
    getter id
    getter loadTime
    getter renderTime
    getter size
    getter url
    method constructor
    method toJSON
interface LaunchParams
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter files
    getter targetURL
    method constructor
interface LaunchQueue
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method setConsumer
interface LayoutShift : PerformanceEntry
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter hadRecentInput
    getter lastInputTime
    getter sources
    getter value
    method constructor
    method toJSON
interface LayoutShiftAttribution
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter currentRect
    getter node
    getter previousRect
    method constructor
    method toJSON
interface LinearAccelerationSensor : Accelerometer
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface Location
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface Lock
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter mode
    getter name
    method constructor
interface LockManager
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method query
    method request
interface MIDIAccess : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter inputs
    getter onstatechange
    getter outputs
    getter sysexEnabled
    method constructor
    setter onstatechange
interface MIDIConnectionEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter port
    method constructor
interface MIDIInput : MIDIPort
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter onmidimessage
    method constructor
    setter onmidimessage
interface MIDIInputMap
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter size
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method entries
    method forEach
    method get
    method has
    method keys
    method values
interface MIDIMessageEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter data
    method constructor
interface MIDIOutput : MIDIPort
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method send
interface MIDIOutputMap
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter size
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method entries
    method forEach
    method get
    method has
    method keys
    method values
interface MIDIPort : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter connection
    getter id
    getter manufacturer
    getter name
    getter onstatechange
    getter state
    getter type
    getter version
    method close
    method constructor
    method open
    setter onstatechange
interface MathMLElement : Element
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter attributeStyleMap
    getter autofocus
    getter dataset
    getter nonce
    getter onabort
    getter onanimationend
    getter onanimationiteration
    getter onanimationstart
    getter onauxclick
    getter onbeforeinput
    getter onbeforematch
    getter onbeforetoggle
    getter onbeforexrselect
    getter onblur
    getter oncancel
    getter oncanplay
    getter oncanplaythrough
    getter onchange
    getter onclick
    getter onclose
    getter oncontentvisibilityautostatechange
    getter oncontextlost
    getter oncontextmenu
    getter oncontextrestored
    getter oncopy
    getter oncuechange
    getter oncut
    getter ondblclick
    getter ondrag
    getter ondragend
    getter ondragenter
    getter ondragleave
    getter ondragover
    getter ondragstart
    getter ondrop
    getter ondurationchange
    getter onemptied
    getter onended
    getter onerror
    getter onfocus
    getter onformdata
    getter ongotpointercapture
    getter oninput
    getter oninvalid
    getter onkeydown
    getter onkeypress
    getter onkeyup
    getter onload
    getter onloadeddata
    getter onloadedmetadata
    getter onloadstart
    getter onlostpointercapture
    getter onmousedown
    getter onmouseenter
    getter onmouseleave
    getter onmousemove
    getter onmouseout
    getter onmouseover
    getter onmouseup
    getter onmousewheel
    getter onpaste
    getter onpause
    getter onplay
    getter onplaying
    getter onpointercancel
    getter onpointerdown
    getter onpointerenter
    getter onpointerleave
    getter onpointermove
    getter onpointerout
    getter onpointerover
    getter onpointerrawupdate
    getter onpointerup
    getter onprogress
    getter onratechange
    getter onreset
    getter onresize
    getter onscroll
    getter onscrollend
    getter onsecuritypolicyviolation
    getter onseeked
    getter onseeking
    getter onselect
    getter onselectionchange
    getter onselectstart
    getter onslotchange
    getter onstalled
    getter onsubmit
    getter onsuspend
    getter ontimeupdate
    getter ontoggle
    getter ontouchcancel
    getter ontouchend
    getter ontouchmove
    getter ontouchstart
    getter ontransitioncancel
    getter ontransitionend
    getter ontransitionrun
    getter ontransitionstart
    getter onvolumechange
    getter onwaiting
    getter onwebkitanimationend
    getter onwebkitanimationiteration
    getter onwebkitanimationstart
    getter onwebkittransitionend
    getter onwheel
    getter style
    getter tabIndex
    method blur
    method constructor
    method focus
    setter autofocus
    setter nonce
    setter onabort
    setter onanimationend
    setter onanimationiteration
    setter onanimationstart
    setter onauxclick
    setter onbeforeinput
    setter onbeforematch
    setter onbeforetoggle
    setter onbeforexrselect
    setter onblur
    setter oncancel
    setter oncanplay
    setter oncanplaythrough
    setter onchange
    setter onclick
    setter onclose
    setter oncontentvisibilityautostatechange
    setter oncontextlost
    setter oncontextmenu
    setter oncontextrestored
    setter oncopy
    setter oncuechange
    setter oncut
    setter ondblclick
    setter ondrag
    setter ondragend
    setter ondragenter
    setter ondragleave
    setter ondragover
    setter ondragstart
    setter ondrop
    setter ondurationchange
    setter onemptied
    setter onended
    setter onerror
    setter onfocus
    setter onformdata
    setter ongotpointercapture
    setter oninput
    setter oninvalid
    setter onkeydown
    setter onkeypress
    setter onkeyup
    setter onload
    setter onloadeddata
    setter onloadedmetadata
    setter onloadstart
    setter onlostpointercapture
    setter onmousedown
    setter onmouseenter
    setter onmouseleave
    setter onmousemove
    setter onmouseout
    setter onmouseover
    setter onmouseup
    setter onmousewheel
    setter onpaste
    setter onpause
    setter onplay
    setter onplaying
    setter onpointercancel
    setter onpointerdown
    setter onpointerenter
    setter onpointerleave
    setter onpointermove
    setter onpointerout
    setter onpointerover
    setter onpointerrawupdate
    setter onpointerup
    setter onprogress
    setter onratechange
    setter onreset
    setter onresize
    setter onscroll
    setter onscrollend
    setter onsecuritypolicyviolation
    setter onseeked
    setter onseeking
    setter onselect
    setter onselectionchange
    setter onselectstart
    setter onslotchange
    setter onstalled
    setter onsubmit
    setter onsuspend
    setter ontimeupdate
    setter ontoggle
    setter ontouchcancel
    setter ontouchend
    setter ontouchmove
    setter ontouchstart
    setter ontransitioncancel
    setter ontransitionend
    setter ontransitionrun
    setter ontransitionstart
    setter onvolumechange
    setter onwaiting
    setter onwebkitanimationend
    setter onwebkitanimationiteration
    setter onwebkitanimationstart
    setter onwebkittransitionend
    setter onwheel
    setter style
    setter tabIndex
interface MediaCapabilities
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method decodingInfo
    method encodingInfo
interface MediaDeviceInfo
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter deviceId
    getter groupId
    getter kind
    getter label
    method constructor
    method toJSON
interface MediaDevices : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter ondevicechange
    method constructor
    method enumerateDevices
    method getDisplayMedia
    method getSupportedConstraints
    method getUserMedia
    method setCaptureHandleConfig
    setter ondevicechange
interface MediaElementAudioSourceNode : AudioNode
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter mediaElement
    method constructor
interface MediaEncryptedEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter initData
    getter initDataType
    method constructor
interface MediaError
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute MEDIA_ERR_ABORTED
    attribute MEDIA_ERR_DECODE
    attribute MEDIA_ERR_NETWORK
    attribute MEDIA_ERR_SRC_NOT_SUPPORTED
    getter code
    getter message
    method constructor
interface MediaKeyMessageEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter message
    getter messageType
    method constructor
interface MediaKeySession : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter closed
    getter expiration
    getter keyStatuses
    getter onkeystatuseschange
    getter onmessage
    getter sessionId
    method close
    method constructor
    method generateRequest
    method load
    method remove
    method update
    setter onkeystatuseschange
    setter onmessage
interface MediaKeyStatusMap
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter size
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method entries
    method forEach
    method get
    method has
    method keys
    method values
interface MediaKeySystemAccess
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter keySystem
    method constructor
    method createMediaKeys
    method getConfiguration
interface MediaKeys
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method createSession
    method getStatusForPolicy
    method setServerCertificate
interface MediaList
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    getter mediaText
    method @@iterator
    method appendMedium
    method constructor
    method deleteMedium
    method item
    method toString
    setter mediaText
interface MediaMetadata
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter album
    getter artist
    getter artwork
    getter title
    method constructor
    setter album
    setter artist
    setter artwork
    setter title
interface MediaQueryList : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter matches
    getter media
    getter onchange
    method addListener
    method constructor
    method removeListener
    setter onchange
interface MediaQueryListEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter matches
    getter media
    method constructor
interface MediaRecorder : EventTarget
    static method isTypeSupported
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter audioBitrateMode
    getter audioBitsPerSecond
    getter mimeType
    getter ondataavailable
    getter onerror
    getter onpause
    getter onresume
    getter onstart
    getter onstop
    getter state
    getter stream
    getter videoBitsPerSecond
    method constructor
    method pause
    method requestData
    method resume
    method start
    method stop
    setter ondataavailable
    setter onerror
    setter onpause
    setter onresume
    setter onstart
    setter onstop
interface MediaSession
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter metadata
    getter playbackState
    method constructor
    method setActionHandler
    method setCameraActive
    method setMicrophoneActive
    method setPositionState
    setter metadata
    setter playbackState
interface MediaSource : EventTarget
    static getter canConstructInDedicatedWorker
    static method isTypeSupported
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter activeSourceBuffers
    getter duration
    getter onsourceclose
    getter onsourceended
    getter onsourceopen
    getter readyState
    getter sourceBuffers
    method addSourceBuffer
    method clearLiveSeekableRange
    method constructor
    method endOfStream
    method removeSourceBuffer
    method setLiveSeekableRange
    setter duration
    setter onsourceclose
    setter onsourceended
    setter onsourceopen
interface MediaSourceHandle
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface MediaStream : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter active
    getter id
    getter onactive
    getter onaddtrack
    getter oninactive
    getter onremovetrack
    method addTrack
    method clone
    method constructor
    method getAudioTracks
    method getTrackById
    method getTracks
    method getVideoTracks
    method removeTrack
    setter onactive
    setter onaddtrack
    setter oninactive
    setter onremovetrack
interface MediaStreamAudioDestinationNode : AudioNode
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter stream
    method constructor
interface MediaStreamAudioSourceNode : AudioNode
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter mediaStream
    method constructor
interface MediaStreamEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter stream
    method constructor
interface MediaStreamTrack : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter contentHint
    getter enabled
    getter id
    getter kind
    getter label
    getter muted
    getter oncapturehandlechange
    getter onended
    getter onmute
    getter onunmute
    getter readyState
    method applyConstraints
    method clone
    method constructor
    method getCapabilities
    method getCaptureHandle
    method getConstraints
    method getSettings
    method stop
    setter contentHint
    setter enabled
    setter oncapturehandlechange
    setter onended
    setter onmute
    setter onunmute
interface MediaStreamTrackEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter track
    method constructor
interface MediaStreamTrackGenerator : MediaStreamTrack
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter writable
    method constructor
interface MediaStreamTrackProcessor
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter readable
    method constructor
interface MessageChannel
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter port1
    getter port2
    method constructor
interface MessageEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter data
    getter lastEventId
    getter origin
    getter ports
    getter source
    getter userActivation
    method constructor
    method initMessageEvent
interface MessagePort : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter onmessage
    getter onmessageerror
    method close
    method constructor
    method postMessage
    method start
    setter onmessage
    setter onmessageerror
interface MimeType
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter description
    getter enabledPlugin
    getter suffixes
    getter type
    method constructor
interface MimeTypeArray
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method item
    method namedItem
interface MouseEvent : UIEvent
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter altKey
    getter button
    getter buttons
    getter clientX
    getter clientY
    getter ctrlKey
    getter fromElement
    getter layerX
    getter layerY
    getter metaKey
    getter movementX
    getter movementY
    getter offsetX
    getter offsetY
    getter pageX
    getter pageY
    getter relatedTarget
    getter screenX
    getter screenY
    getter shiftKey
    getter toElement
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
    method getModifierState
    method initMouseEvent
interface MutationEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute ADDITION
    attribute MODIFICATION
    attribute REMOVAL
    getter attrChange
    getter attrName
    getter newValue
    getter prevValue
    getter relatedNode
    method constructor
    method initMutationEvent
interface MutationObserver
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method disconnect
    method observe
    method takeRecords
interface MutationRecord
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter addedNodes
    getter attributeName
    getter attributeNamespace
    getter nextSibling
    getter oldValue
    getter previousSibling
    getter removedNodes
    getter target
    getter type
    method constructor
interface NamedNodeMap
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method getNamedItem
    method getNamedItemNS
    method item
    method removeNamedItem
    method removeNamedItemNS
    method setNamedItem
    method setNamedItemNS
interface NavigateEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter canIntercept
    getter canTransition
    getter destination
    getter downloadRequest
    getter formData
    getter hashChange
    getter info
    getter navigationType
    getter signal
    getter userInitiated
    method constructor
    method intercept
    method scroll
interface Navigation : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter canGoBack
    getter canGoForward
    getter currentEntry
    getter oncurrententrychange
    getter onnavigate
    getter onnavigateerror
    getter onnavigatesuccess
    getter transition
    method back
    method constructor
    method entries
    method forward
    method navigate
    method reload
    method traverseTo
    method updateCurrentEntry
    setter oncurrententrychange
    setter onnavigate
    setter onnavigateerror
    setter onnavigatesuccess
interface NavigationCurrentEntryChangeEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter from
    getter navigationType
    method constructor
interface NavigationDestination
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter id
    getter index
    getter key
    getter sameDocument
    getter url
    method constructor
    method getState
interface NavigationHistoryEntry : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter id
    getter index
    getter key
    getter ondispose
    getter sameDocument
    getter url
    method constructor
    method getState
    setter ondispose
interface NavigationPreloadManager
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method disable
    method enable
    method getState
    method setHeaderValue
interface NavigationTransition
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter finished
    getter from
    getter navigationType
    method constructor
interface Navigator
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter appCodeName
    getter appName
    getter appVersion
    getter clipboard
    getter connection
    getter cookieEnabled
    getter credentials
    getter deviceMemory
    getter doNotTrack
    getter geolocation
    getter gpu
    getter hardwareConcurrency
    getter hid
    getter ink
    getter keyboard
    getter language
    getter languages
    getter locks
    getter managed
    getter maxTouchPoints
    getter mediaCapabilities
    getter mediaDevices
    getter mediaSession
    getter mimeTypes
    getter onLine
    getter pdfViewerEnabled
    getter permissions
    getter platform
    getter plugins
    getter presentation
    getter product
    getter productSub
    getter scheduling
    getter serial
    getter serviceWorker
    getter storage
    getter usb
    getter userActivation
    getter userAgent
    getter userAgentData
    getter vendor
    getter vendorSub
    getter virtualKeyboard
    getter wakeLock
    getter webdriver
    getter webkitPersistentStorage
    getter webkitTemporaryStorage
    getter windowControlsOverlay
    getter xr
    method clearAppBadge
    method constructor
    method getBattery
    method getGamepads
    method getInstalledRelatedApps
    method getUserMedia
    method javaEnabled
    method registerProtocolHandler
    method requestMIDIAccess
    method requestMediaKeySystemAccess
    method sendBeacon
    method setAppBadge
    method unregisterProtocolHandler
    method vibrate
    method webkitGetUserMedia
interface NavigatorManagedData : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter onmanagedconfigurationchange
    method constructor
    method getManagedConfiguration
    setter onmanagedconfigurationchange
interface NavigatorUAData
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter brands
    getter mobile
    getter platform
    method constructor
    method getHighEntropyValues
    method toJSON
interface NetworkInformation : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter downlink
    getter effectiveType
    getter onchange
    getter rtt
    getter saveData
    method constructor
    setter onchange
interface Node : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute ATTRIBUTE_NODE
    attribute CDATA_SECTION_NODE
    attribute COMMENT_NODE
    attribute DOCUMENT_FRAGMENT_NODE
    attribute DOCUMENT_NODE
    attribute DOCUMENT_POSITION_CONTAINED_BY
    attribute DOCUMENT_POSITION_CONTAINS
    attribute DOCUMENT_POSITION_DISCONNECTED
    attribute DOCUMENT_POSITION_FOLLOWING
    attribute DOCUMENT_POSITION_IMPLEMENTATION_SPECIFIC
    attribute DOCUMENT_POSITION_PRECEDING
    attribute DOCUMENT_TYPE_NODE
    attribute ELEMENT_NODE
    attribute ENTITY_NODE
    attribute ENTITY_REFERENCE_NODE
    attribute NOTATION_NODE
    attribute PROCESSING_INSTRUCTION_NODE
    attribute TEXT_NODE
    getter baseURI
    getter childNodes
    getter firstChild
    getter isConnected
    getter lastChild
    getter nextSibling
    getter nodeName
    getter nodeType
    getter nodeValue
    getter ownerDocument
    getter parentElement
    getter parentNode
    getter previousSibling
    getter textContent
    method appendChild
    method cloneNode
    method compareDocumentPosition
    method constructor
    method contains
    method getRootNode
    method hasChildNodes
    method insertBefore
    method isDefaultNamespace
    method isEqualNode
    method isSameNode
    method lookupNamespaceURI
    method lookupPrefix
    method normalize
    method removeChild
    method replaceChild
    setter nodeValue
    setter textContent
interface NodeIterator
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter filter
    getter pointerBeforeReferenceNode
    getter referenceNode
    getter root
    getter whatToShow
    method constructor
    method detach
    method nextNode
    method previousNode
interface NodeList
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method entries
    method forEach
    method item
    method keys
    method values
interface Notification : EventTarget
    static getter maxActions
    static getter permission
    static method requestPermission
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter actions
    getter badge
    getter body
    getter data
    getter dir
    getter icon
    getter lang
    getter onclick
    getter onclose
    getter onerror
    getter onshow
    getter renotify
    getter requireInteraction
    getter silent
    getter tag
    getter timestamp
    getter title
    getter vibrate
    method close
    method constructor
    setter onclick
    setter onclose
    setter onerror
    setter onshow
interface OTPCredential : Credential
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter code
    method constructor
interface OfflineAudioCompletionEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter renderedBuffer
    method constructor
interface OfflineAudioContext : BaseAudioContext
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    getter oncomplete
    method constructor
    method resume
    method startRendering
    method suspend
    setter oncomplete
interface OffscreenCanvas : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter height
    getter oncontextlost
    getter oncontextrestored
    getter width
    method constructor
    method convertToBlob
    method getContext
    method transferToImageBitmap
    setter height
    setter oncontextlost
    setter oncontextrestored
    setter width
interface OffscreenCanvasRenderingContext2D
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter canvas
    getter direction
    getter fillStyle
    getter filter
    getter font
    getter fontKerning
    getter fontStretch
    getter fontVariantCaps
    getter globalAlpha
    getter globalCompositeOperation
    getter imageSmoothingEnabled
    getter imageSmoothingQuality
    getter letterSpacing
    getter lineCap
    getter lineDashOffset
    getter lineJoin
    getter lineWidth
    getter miterLimit
    getter shadowBlur
    getter shadowColor
    getter shadowOffsetX
    getter shadowOffsetY
    getter strokeStyle
    getter textAlign
    getter textBaseline
    getter textRendering
    getter wordSpacing
    method arc
    method arcTo
    method beginPath
    method bezierCurveTo
    method clearRect
    method clip
    method closePath
    method constructor
    method createConicGradient
    method createImageData
    method createLinearGradient
    method createPattern
    method createRadialGradient
    method drawImage
    method ellipse
    method fill
    method fillRect
    method fillText
    method getImageData
    method getLineDash
    method getTransform
    method isContextLost
    method isPointInPath
    method isPointInStroke
    method lineTo
    method measureText
    method moveTo
    method putImageData
    method quadraticCurveTo
    method rect
    method reset
    method resetTransform
    method restore
    method rotate
    method roundRect
    method save
    method scale
    method setLineDash
    method setTransform
    method stroke
    method strokeRect
    method strokeText
    method transform
    method translate
    setter direction
    setter fillStyle
    setter filter
    setter font
    setter fontKerning
    setter fontStretch
    setter fontVariantCaps
    setter globalAlpha
    setter globalCompositeOperation
    setter imageSmoothingEnabled
    setter imageSmoothingQuality
    setter letterSpacing
    setter lineCap
    setter lineDashOffset
    setter lineJoin
    setter lineWidth
    setter miterLimit
    setter shadowBlur
    setter shadowColor
    setter shadowOffsetX
    setter shadowOffsetY
    setter strokeStyle
    setter textAlign
    setter textBaseline
    setter textRendering
    setter wordSpacing
interface Option
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter defaultSelected
    getter disabled
    getter form
    getter index
    getter label
    getter selected
    getter text
    getter value
    method constructor
    setter defaultSelected
    setter disabled
    setter label
    setter selected
    setter text
    setter value
interface OrientationSensor : Sensor
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter quaternion
    method constructor
    method populateMatrix
interface OscillatorNode : AudioScheduledSourceNode
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter detune
    getter frequency
    getter type
    method constructor
    method setPeriodicWave
    setter type
interface OverconstrainedError : DOMException
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter constraint
    method constructor
interface PageTransitionEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter persisted
    method constructor
interface PannerNode : AudioNode
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter coneInnerAngle
    getter coneOuterAngle
    getter coneOuterGain
    getter distanceModel
    getter maxDistance
    getter orientationX
    getter orientationY
    getter orientationZ
    getter panningModel
    getter positionX
    getter positionY
    getter positionZ
    getter refDistance
    getter rolloffFactor
    method constructor
    method setOrientation
    method setPosition
    setter coneInnerAngle
    setter coneOuterAngle
    setter coneOuterGain
    setter distanceModel
    setter maxDistance
    setter panningModel
    setter refDistance
    setter rolloffFactor
interface PasswordCredential : Credential
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter iconURL
    getter name
    getter password
    method constructor
interface Path2D
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method addPath
    method arc
    method arcTo
    method bezierCurveTo
    method closePath
    method constructor
    method ellipse
    method lineTo
    method moveTo
    method quadraticCurveTo
    method rect
    method roundRect
interface PaymentAddress
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter addressLine
    getter city
    getter country
    getter dependentLocality
    getter organization
    getter phone
    getter postalCode
    getter recipient
    getter region
    getter sortingCode
    method constructor
    method toJSON
interface PaymentManager
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter userHint
    method constructor
    method enableDelegations
    setter userHint
interface PaymentMethodChangeEvent : PaymentRequestUpdateEvent
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter methodDetails
    getter methodName
    method constructor
interface PaymentRequest : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter id
    getter onpaymentmethodchange
    getter onshippingaddresschange
    getter onshippingoptionchange
    getter shippingAddress
    getter shippingOption
    getter shippingType
    method abort
    method canMakePayment
    method constructor
    method hasEnrolledInstrument
    method show
    setter onpaymentmethodchange
    setter onshippingaddresschange
    setter onshippingoptionchange
interface PaymentRequestUpdateEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method updateWith
interface PaymentResponse : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter details
    getter methodName
    getter onpayerdetailchange
    getter payerEmail
    getter payerName
    getter payerPhone
    getter requestId
    getter shippingAddress
    getter shippingOption
    method complete
    method constructor
    method retry
    method toJSON
    setter onpayerdetailchange
interface Performance : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter eventCounts
    getter memory
    getter navigation
    getter onresourcetimingbufferfull
    getter timeOrigin
    getter timing
    method clearMarks
    method clearMeasures
    method clearResourceTimings
    method constructor
    method getEntries
    method getEntriesByName
    method getEntriesByType
    method mark
    method measure
    method now
    method setResourceTimingBufferSize
    method toJSON
    setter onresourcetimingbufferfull
interface PerformanceElementTiming : PerformanceEntry
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter element
    getter id
    getter identifier
    getter intersectionRect
    getter loadTime
    getter naturalHeight
    getter naturalWidth
    getter renderTime
    getter url
    method constructor
    method toJSON
interface PerformanceEntry
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter duration
    getter entryType
    getter name
    getter startTime
    method constructor
    method toJSON
interface PerformanceEventTiming : PerformanceEntry
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter cancelable
    getter interactionId
    getter processingEnd
    getter processingStart
    getter target
    method constructor
    method toJSON
interface PerformanceLongTaskTiming : PerformanceEntry
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter attribution
    method constructor
    method toJSON
interface PerformanceMark : PerformanceEntry
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter detail
    method constructor
interface PerformanceMeasure : PerformanceEntry
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter detail
    method constructor
interface PerformanceNavigation
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute TYPE_BACK_FORWARD
    attribute TYPE_NAVIGATE
    attribute TYPE_RELOAD
    attribute TYPE_RESERVED
    getter redirectCount
    getter type
    method constructor
    method toJSON
interface PerformanceNavigationTiming : PerformanceResourceTiming
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter activationStart
    getter domComplete
    getter domContentLoadedEventEnd
    getter domContentLoadedEventStart
    getter domInteractive
    getter loadEventEnd
    getter loadEventStart
    getter redirectCount
    getter type
    getter unloadEventEnd
    getter unloadEventStart
    method constructor
    method toJSON
interface PerformanceObserver
    static getter supportedEntryTypes
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method disconnect
    method observe
    method takeRecords
interface PerformanceObserverEntryList
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method getEntries
    method getEntriesByName
    method getEntriesByType
interface PerformancePaintTiming : PerformanceEntry
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface PerformanceResourceTiming : PerformanceEntry
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter connectEnd
    getter connectStart
    getter decodedBodySize
    getter domainLookupEnd
    getter domainLookupStart
    getter encodedBodySize
    getter fetchStart
    getter initiatorType
    getter nextHopProtocol
    getter redirectEnd
    getter redirectStart
    getter renderBlockingStatus
    getter requestStart
    getter responseEnd
    getter responseStart
    getter responseStatus
    getter secureConnectionStart
    getter serverTiming
    getter transferSize
    getter workerStart
    method constructor
    method toJSON
interface PerformanceServerTiming
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter description
    getter duration
    getter name
    method constructor
    method toJSON
interface PerformanceTiming
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter connectEnd
    getter connectStart
    getter domComplete
    getter domContentLoadedEventEnd
    getter domContentLoadedEventStart
    getter domInteractive
    getter domLoading
    getter domainLookupEnd
    getter domainLookupStart
    getter fetchStart
    getter loadEventEnd
    getter loadEventStart
    getter navigationStart
    getter redirectEnd
    getter redirectStart
    getter requestStart
    getter responseEnd
    getter responseStart
    getter secureConnectionStart
    getter unloadEventEnd
    getter unloadEventStart
    method constructor
    method toJSON
interface PeriodicSyncManager
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method getTags
    method register
    method unregister
interface PeriodicWave
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface PermissionStatus : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter name
    getter onchange
    getter state
    method constructor
    setter onchange
interface Permissions
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method query
interface PictureInPictureEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter pictureInPictureWindow
    method constructor
interface PictureInPictureWindow : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter height
    getter onresize
    getter width
    method constructor
    setter onresize
interface Plugin
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter description
    getter filename
    getter length
    getter name
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method item
    method namedItem
interface PluginArray
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method item
    method namedItem
    method refresh
interface PointerEvent : MouseEvent
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter altitudeAngle
    getter azimuthAngle
    getter height
    getter isPrimary
    getter pointerId
    getter pointerType
    getter pressure
    getter tangentialPressure
    getter tiltX
    getter tiltY
    getter twist
    getter width
    method constructor
    method getCoalescedEvents
    method getPredictedEvents
interface PopStateEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter state
    method constructor
interface Presentation
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter defaultRequest
    getter receiver
    method constructor
    setter defaultRequest
interface PresentationAvailability : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter onchange
    getter value
    method constructor
    setter onchange
interface PresentationConnection : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter binaryType
    getter id
    getter onclose
    getter onconnect
    getter onmessage
    getter onterminate
    getter state
    getter url
    method close
    method constructor
    method send
    method terminate
    setter binaryType
    setter onclose
    setter onconnect
    setter onmessage
    setter onterminate
interface PresentationConnectionAvailableEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter connection
    method constructor
interface PresentationConnectionCloseEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter message
    getter reason
    method constructor
interface PresentationConnectionList : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter connections
    getter onconnectionavailable
    method constructor
    setter onconnectionavailable
interface PresentationReceiver
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter connectionList
    method constructor
interface PresentationRequest : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter onconnectionavailable
    method constructor
    method getAvailability
    method reconnect
    method start
    setter onconnectionavailable
interface ProcessingInstruction : CharacterData
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter sheet
    getter target
    method constructor
interface Profiler : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter sampleInterval
    getter stopped
    method constructor
    method stop
interface ProgressEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter lengthComputable
    getter loaded
    getter total
    method constructor
interface PromiseRejectionEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter promise
    getter reason
    method constructor
interface PublicKeyCredential : Credential
    static method isConditionalMediationAvailable
    static method isUserVerifyingPlatformAuthenticatorAvailable
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter authenticatorAttachment
    getter rawId
    getter response
    method constructor
    method getClientExtensionResults
interface PushManager
    static getter supportedContentEncodings
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method getSubscription
    method permissionState
    method subscribe
interface PushSubscription
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter endpoint
    getter expirationTime
    getter options
    method constructor
    method getKey
    method toJSON
    method unsubscribe
interface PushSubscriptionOptions
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter applicationServerKey
    getter userVisibleOnly
    method constructor
interface RTCCertificate
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter expires
    method constructor
    method getFingerprints
interface RTCDTMFSender : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter canInsertDTMF
    getter ontonechange
    getter toneBuffer
    method constructor
    method insertDTMF
    setter ontonechange
interface RTCDTMFToneChangeEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter tone
    method constructor
interface RTCDataChannel : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter binaryType
    getter bufferedAmount
    getter bufferedAmountLowThreshold
    getter id
    getter label
    getter maxPacketLifeTime
    getter maxRetransmits
    getter negotiated
    getter onbufferedamountlow
    getter onclose
    getter onclosing
    getter onerror
    getter onmessage
    getter onopen
    getter ordered
    getter protocol
    getter readyState
    getter reliable
    method close
    method constructor
    method send
    setter binaryType
    setter bufferedAmountLowThreshold
    setter onbufferedamountlow
    setter onclose
    setter onclosing
    setter onerror
    setter onmessage
    setter onopen
interface RTCDataChannelEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter channel
    method constructor
interface RTCDtlsTransport : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter iceTransport
    getter onerror
    getter onstatechange
    getter state
    method constructor
    method getRemoteCertificates
    setter onerror
    setter onstatechange
interface RTCEncodedAudioFrame
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter data
    getter timestamp
    method constructor
    method getMetadata
    method toString
    setter data
interface RTCEncodedVideoFrame
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter data
    getter timestamp
    getter type
    method constructor
    method getMetadata
    method toString
    setter data
interface RTCError : DOMException
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter errorDetail
    getter httpRequestStatusCode
    getter receivedAlert
    getter sctpCauseCode
    getter sdpLineNumber
    getter sentAlert
    method constructor
interface RTCErrorEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter error
    method constructor
interface RTCIceCandidate
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter address
    getter candidate
    getter component
    getter foundation
    getter port
    getter priority
    getter protocol
    getter relatedAddress
    getter relatedPort
    getter sdpMLineIndex
    getter sdpMid
    getter tcpType
    getter type
    getter usernameFragment
    method constructor
    method toJSON
interface RTCIceTransport : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter gatheringState
    getter ongatheringstatechange
    getter onselectedcandidatepairchange
    getter onstatechange
    getter role
    getter state
    method constructor
    method getLocalCandidates
    method getLocalParameters
    method getRemoteCandidates
    method getRemoteParameters
    method getSelectedCandidatePair
    setter ongatheringstatechange
    setter onselectedcandidatepairchange
    setter onstatechange
interface RTCPeerConnection : EventTarget
    static method generateCertificate
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter canTrickleIceCandidates
    getter connectionState
    getter currentLocalDescription
    getter currentRemoteDescription
    getter iceConnectionState
    getter iceGatheringState
    getter localDescription
    getter onaddstream
    getter onconnectionstatechange
    getter ondatachannel
    getter onicecandidate
    getter onicecandidateerror
    getter oniceconnectionstatechange
    getter onicegatheringstatechange
    getter onnegotiationneeded
    getter onremovestream
    getter onsignalingstatechange
    getter ontrack
    getter pendingLocalDescription
    getter pendingRemoteDescription
    getter remoteDescription
    getter sctp
    getter signalingState
    method addIceCandidate
    method addStream
    method addTrack
    method addTransceiver
    method close
    method constructor
    method createAnswer
    method createDTMFSender
    method createDataChannel
    method createOffer
    method getConfiguration
    method getLocalStreams
    method getReceivers
    method getRemoteStreams
    method getSenders
    method getStats
    method getTransceivers
    method removeStream
    method removeTrack
    method restartIce
    method setConfiguration
    method setLocalDescription
    method setRemoteDescription
    setter onaddstream
    setter onconnectionstatechange
    setter ondatachannel
    setter onicecandidate
    setter onicecandidateerror
    setter oniceconnectionstatechange
    setter onicegatheringstatechange
    setter onnegotiationneeded
    setter onremovestream
    setter onsignalingstatechange
    setter ontrack
interface RTCPeerConnectionIceErrorEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter address
    getter errorCode
    getter errorText
    getter hostCandidate
    getter port
    getter url
    method constructor
interface RTCPeerConnectionIceEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter candidate
    method constructor
interface RTCRtpReceiver
    static method getCapabilities
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter playoutDelayHint
    getter rtcpTransport
    getter track
    getter transport
    method constructor
    method createEncodedStreams
    method getContributingSources
    method getParameters
    method getStats
    method getSynchronizationSources
    setter playoutDelayHint
interface RTCRtpSender
    static method getCapabilities
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter dtmf
    getter rtcpTransport
    getter track
    getter transport
    method constructor
    method createEncodedStreams
    method getParameters
    method getStats
    method replaceTrack
    method setParameters
    method setStreams
interface RTCRtpTransceiver
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter currentDirection
    getter direction
    getter mid
    getter receiver
    getter sender
    getter stopped
    method constructor
    method setCodecPreferences
    method stop
    setter direction
interface RTCSctpTransport : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter maxChannels
    getter maxMessageSize
    getter onstatechange
    getter state
    getter transport
    method constructor
    setter onstatechange
interface RTCSessionDescription
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter sdp
    getter type
    method constructor
    method toJSON
    setter sdp
    setter type
interface RTCStatsReport
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter size
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method entries
    method forEach
    method get
    method has
    method keys
    method values
interface RTCTrackEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter receiver
    getter streams
    getter track
    getter transceiver
    method constructor
interface RadioNodeList : NodeList
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter value
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    setter value
interface Range : AbstractRange
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute END_TO_END
    attribute END_TO_START
    attribute START_TO_END
    attribute START_TO_START
    getter commonAncestorContainer
    method cloneContents
    method cloneRange
    method collapse
    method compareBoundaryPoints
    method comparePoint
    method constructor
    method createContextualFragment
    method deleteContents
    method detach
    method expand
    method extractContents
    method getBoundingClientRect
    method getClientRects
    method insertNode
    method intersectsNode
    method isPointInRange
    method selectNode
    method selectNodeContents
    method setEnd
    method setEndAfter
    method setEndBefore
    method setStart
    method setStartAfter
    method setStartBefore
    method surroundContents
    method toString
interface ReadableByteStreamController
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter byobRequest
    getter desiredSize
    method close
    method constructor
    method enqueue
    method error
interface ReadableStream
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter locked
    method cancel
    method constructor
    method getReader
    method pipeThrough
    method pipeTo
    method tee
interface ReadableStreamBYOBReader
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter closed
    method cancel
    method constructor
    method read
    method releaseLock
interface ReadableStreamBYOBRequest
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter view
    method constructor
    method respond
    method respondWithNewView
interface ReadableStreamDefaultController
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter desiredSize
    method close
    method constructor
    method enqueue
    method error
interface ReadableStreamDefaultReader
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter closed
    method cancel
    method constructor
    method read
    method releaseLock
interface RelativeOrientationSensor : OrientationSensor
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface RemotePlayback : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter onconnect
    getter onconnecting
    getter ondisconnect
    getter state
    method cancelWatchAvailability
    method constructor
    method prompt
    method watchAvailability
    setter onconnect
    setter onconnecting
    setter ondisconnect
interface ReportingObserver
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method disconnect
    method observe
    method takeRecords
interface Request
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter body
    getter bodyUsed
    getter cache
    getter credentials
    getter destination
    getter headers
    getter integrity
    getter isHistoryNavigation
    getter keepalive
    getter method
    getter mode
    getter redirect
    getter referrer
    getter referrerPolicy
    getter signal
    getter url
    method arrayBuffer
    method blob
    method clone
    method constructor
    method formData
    method json
    method text
interface ResizeObserver
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method disconnect
    method observe
    method unobserve
interface ResizeObserverEntry
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter borderBoxSize
    getter contentBoxSize
    getter contentRect
    getter devicePixelContentBoxSize
    getter target
    method constructor
interface ResizeObserverSize
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter blockSize
    getter inlineSize
    method constructor
interface Response
    static method error
    static method redirect
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter body
    getter bodyUsed
    getter headers
    getter ok
    getter redirected
    getter status
    getter statusText
    getter type
    getter url
    method arrayBuffer
    method blob
    method clone
    method constructor
    method formData
    method json
    method text
interface SVGAElement : SVGGraphicsElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter href
    getter target
    method constructor
interface SVGAngle
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute SVG_ANGLETYPE_DEG
    attribute SVG_ANGLETYPE_GRAD
    attribute SVG_ANGLETYPE_RAD
    attribute SVG_ANGLETYPE_UNKNOWN
    attribute SVG_ANGLETYPE_UNSPECIFIED
    getter unitType
    getter value
    getter valueAsString
    getter valueInSpecifiedUnits
    method constructor
    method convertToSpecifiedUnits
    method newValueSpecifiedUnits
    setter value
    setter valueAsString
    setter valueInSpecifiedUnits
interface SVGAnimateElement : SVGAnimationElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface SVGAnimateMotionElement : SVGAnimationElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface SVGAnimateTransformElement : SVGAnimationElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface SVGAnimatedAngle
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter animVal
    getter baseVal
    method constructor
interface SVGAnimatedBoolean
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter animVal
    getter baseVal
    method constructor
    setter baseVal
interface SVGAnimatedEnumeration
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter animVal
    getter baseVal
    method constructor
    setter baseVal
interface SVGAnimatedInteger
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter animVal
    getter baseVal
    method constructor
    setter baseVal
interface SVGAnimatedLength
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter animVal
    getter baseVal
    method constructor
interface SVGAnimatedLengthList
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter animVal
    getter baseVal
    method constructor
interface SVGAnimatedNumber
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter animVal
    getter baseVal
    method constructor
    setter baseVal
interface SVGAnimatedNumberList
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter animVal
    getter baseVal
    method constructor
interface SVGAnimatedPreserveAspectRatio
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter animVal
    getter baseVal
    method constructor
interface SVGAnimatedRect
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter animVal
    getter baseVal
    method constructor
interface SVGAnimatedString
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter animVal
    getter baseVal
    method constructor
    setter baseVal
interface SVGAnimatedTransformList
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter animVal
    getter baseVal
    method constructor
interface SVGAnimationElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter onbegin
    getter onend
    getter onrepeat
    getter requiredExtensions
    getter systemLanguage
    getter targetElement
    method beginElement
    method beginElementAt
    method constructor
    method endElement
    method endElementAt
    method getCurrentTime
    method getSimpleDuration
    method getStartTime
    setter onbegin
    setter onend
    setter onrepeat
interface SVGCircleElement : SVGGeometryElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter cx
    getter cy
    getter r
    method constructor
interface SVGClipPathElement : SVGGraphicsElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter clipPathUnits
    method constructor
interface SVGComponentTransferFunctionElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute SVG_FECOMPONENTTRANSFER_TYPE_DISCRETE
    attribute SVG_FECOMPONENTTRANSFER_TYPE_GAMMA
    attribute SVG_FECOMPONENTTRANSFER_TYPE_IDENTITY
    attribute SVG_FECOMPONENTTRANSFER_TYPE_LINEAR
    attribute SVG_FECOMPONENTTRANSFER_TYPE_TABLE
    attribute SVG_FECOMPONENTTRANSFER_TYPE_UNKNOWN
    getter amplitude
    getter exponent
    getter intercept
    getter offset
    getter slope
    getter tableValues
    getter type
    method constructor
interface SVGDefsElement : SVGGraphicsElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface SVGDescElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface SVGElement : Element
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter attributeStyleMap
    getter autofocus
    getter className
    getter dataset
    getter nonce
    getter onabort
    getter onanimationend
    getter onanimationiteration
    getter onanimationstart
    getter onauxclick
    getter onbeforeinput
    getter onbeforematch
    getter onbeforetoggle
    getter onbeforexrselect
    getter onblur
    getter oncancel
    getter oncanplay
    getter oncanplaythrough
    getter onchange
    getter onclick
    getter onclose
    getter oncontentvisibilityautostatechange
    getter oncontextlost
    getter oncontextmenu
    getter oncontextrestored
    getter oncopy
    getter oncuechange
    getter oncut
    getter ondblclick
    getter ondrag
    getter ondragend
    getter ondragenter
    getter ondragleave
    getter ondragover
    getter ondragstart
    getter ondrop
    getter ondurationchange
    getter onemptied
    getter onended
    getter onerror
    getter onfocus
    getter onformdata
    getter ongotpointercapture
    getter oninput
    getter oninvalid
    getter onkeydown
    getter onkeypress
    getter onkeyup
    getter onload
    getter onloadeddata
    getter onloadedmetadata
    getter onloadstart
    getter onlostpointercapture
    getter onmousedown
    getter onmouseenter
    getter onmouseleave
    getter onmousemove
    getter onmouseout
    getter onmouseover
    getter onmouseup
    getter onmousewheel
    getter onpaste
    getter onpause
    getter onplay
    getter onplaying
    getter onpointercancel
    getter onpointerdown
    getter onpointerenter
    getter onpointerleave
    getter onpointermove
    getter onpointerout
    getter onpointerover
    getter onpointerrawupdate
    getter onpointerup
    getter onprogress
    getter onratechange
    getter onreset
    getter onresize
    getter onscroll
    getter onscrollend
    getter onsecuritypolicyviolation
    getter onseeked
    getter onseeking
    getter onselect
    getter onselectionchange
    getter onselectstart
    getter onslotchange
    getter onstalled
    getter onsubmit
    getter onsuspend
    getter ontimeupdate
    getter ontoggle
    getter ontouchcancel
    getter ontouchend
    getter ontouchmove
    getter ontouchstart
    getter ontransitioncancel
    getter ontransitionend
    getter ontransitionrun
    getter ontransitionstart
    getter onvolumechange
    getter onwaiting
    getter onwebkitanimationend
    getter onwebkitanimationiteration
    getter onwebkitanimationstart
    getter onwebkittransitionend
    getter onwheel
    getter ownerSVGElement
    getter style
    getter tabIndex
    getter viewportElement
    method blur
    method constructor
    method focus
    setter autofocus
    setter nonce
    setter onabort
    setter onanimationend
    setter onanimationiteration
    setter onanimationstart
    setter onauxclick
    setter onbeforeinput
    setter onbeforematch
    setter onbeforetoggle
    setter onbeforexrselect
    setter onblur
    setter oncancel
    setter oncanplay
    setter oncanplaythrough
    setter onchange
    setter onclick
    setter onclose
    setter oncontentvisibilityautostatechange
    setter oncontextlost
    setter oncontextmenu
    setter oncontextrestored
    setter oncopy
    setter oncuechange
    setter oncut
    setter ondblclick
    setter ondrag
    setter ondragend
    setter ondragenter
    setter ondragleave
    setter ondragover
    setter ondragstart
    setter ondrop
    setter ondurationchange
    setter onemptied
    setter onended
    setter onerror
    setter onfocus
    setter onformdata
    setter ongotpointercapture
    setter oninput
    setter oninvalid
    setter onkeydown
    setter onkeypress
    setter onkeyup
    setter onload
    setter onloadeddata
    setter onloadedmetadata
    setter onloadstart
    setter onlostpointercapture
    setter onmousedown
    setter onmouseenter
    setter onmouseleave
    setter onmousemove
    setter onmouseout
    setter onmouseover
    setter onmouseup
    setter onmousewheel
    setter onpaste
    setter onpause
    setter onplay
    setter onplaying
    setter onpointercancel
    setter onpointerdown
    setter onpointerenter
    setter onpointerleave
    setter onpointermove
    setter onpointerout
    setter onpointerover
    setter onpointerrawupdate
    setter onpointerup
    setter onprogress
    setter onratechange
    setter onreset
    setter onresize
    setter onscroll
    setter onscrollend
    setter onsecuritypolicyviolation
    setter onseeked
    setter onseeking
    setter onselect
    setter onselectionchange
    setter onselectstart
    setter onslotchange
    setter onstalled
    setter onsubmit
    setter onsuspend
    setter ontimeupdate
    setter ontoggle
    setter ontouchcancel
    setter ontouchend
    setter ontouchmove
    setter ontouchstart
    setter ontransitioncancel
    setter ontransitionend
    setter ontransitionrun
    setter ontransitionstart
    setter onvolumechange
    setter onwaiting
    setter onwebkitanimationend
    setter onwebkitanimationiteration
    setter onwebkitanimationstart
    setter onwebkittransitionend
    setter onwheel
    setter style
    setter tabIndex
interface SVGEllipseElement : SVGGeometryElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter cx
    getter cy
    getter rx
    getter ry
    method constructor
interface SVGFEBlendElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute SVG_FEBLEND_MODE_COLOR
    attribute SVG_FEBLEND_MODE_COLOR_BURN
    attribute SVG_FEBLEND_MODE_COLOR_DODGE
    attribute SVG_FEBLEND_MODE_DARKEN
    attribute SVG_FEBLEND_MODE_DIFFERENCE
    attribute SVG_FEBLEND_MODE_EXCLUSION
    attribute SVG_FEBLEND_MODE_HARD_LIGHT
    attribute SVG_FEBLEND_MODE_HUE
    attribute SVG_FEBLEND_MODE_LIGHTEN
    attribute SVG_FEBLEND_MODE_LUMINOSITY
    attribute SVG_FEBLEND_MODE_MULTIPLY
    attribute SVG_FEBLEND_MODE_NORMAL
    attribute SVG_FEBLEND_MODE_OVERLAY
    attribute SVG_FEBLEND_MODE_SATURATION
    attribute SVG_FEBLEND_MODE_SCREEN
    attribute SVG_FEBLEND_MODE_SOFT_LIGHT
    attribute SVG_FEBLEND_MODE_UNKNOWN
    getter height
    getter in1
    getter in2
    getter mode
    getter result
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
interface SVGFEColorMatrixElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute SVG_FECOLORMATRIX_TYPE_HUEROTATE
    attribute SVG_FECOLORMATRIX_TYPE_LUMINANCETOALPHA
    attribute SVG_FECOLORMATRIX_TYPE_MATRIX
    attribute SVG_FECOLORMATRIX_TYPE_SATURATE
    attribute SVG_FECOLORMATRIX_TYPE_UNKNOWN
    getter height
    getter in1
    getter result
    getter type
    getter values
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
interface SVGFEComponentTransferElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter height
    getter in1
    getter result
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
interface SVGFECompositeElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute SVG_FECOMPOSITE_OPERATOR_ARITHMETIC
    attribute SVG_FECOMPOSITE_OPERATOR_ATOP
    attribute SVG_FECOMPOSITE_OPERATOR_IN
    attribute SVG_FECOMPOSITE_OPERATOR_OUT
    attribute SVG_FECOMPOSITE_OPERATOR_OVER
    attribute SVG_FECOMPOSITE_OPERATOR_UNKNOWN
    attribute SVG_FECOMPOSITE_OPERATOR_XOR
    getter height
    getter in1
    getter in2
    getter k1
    getter k2
    getter k3
    getter k4
    getter operator
    getter result
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
interface SVGFEConvolveMatrixElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute SVG_EDGEMODE_DUPLICATE
    attribute SVG_EDGEMODE_NONE
    attribute SVG_EDGEMODE_UNKNOWN
    attribute SVG_EDGEMODE_WRAP
    getter bias
    getter divisor
    getter edgeMode
    getter height
    getter in1
    getter kernelMatrix
    getter kernelUnitLengthX
    getter kernelUnitLengthY
    getter orderX
    getter orderY
    getter preserveAlpha
    getter result
    getter targetX
    getter targetY
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
interface SVGFEDiffuseLightingElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter diffuseConstant
    getter height
    getter in1
    getter kernelUnitLengthX
    getter kernelUnitLengthY
    getter result
    getter surfaceScale
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
interface SVGFEDisplacementMapElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute SVG_CHANNEL_A
    attribute SVG_CHANNEL_B
    attribute SVG_CHANNEL_G
    attribute SVG_CHANNEL_R
    attribute SVG_CHANNEL_UNKNOWN
    getter height
    getter in1
    getter in2
    getter result
    getter scale
    getter width
    getter x
    getter xChannelSelector
    getter y
    getter yChannelSelector
    method constructor
interface SVGFEDistantLightElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter azimuth
    getter elevation
    method constructor
interface SVGFEDropShadowElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter dx
    getter dy
    getter height
    getter in1
    getter result
    getter stdDeviationX
    getter stdDeviationY
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
    method setStdDeviation
interface SVGFEFloodElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter height
    getter result
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
interface SVGFEFuncAElement : SVGComponentTransferFunctionElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface SVGFEFuncBElement : SVGComponentTransferFunctionElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface SVGFEFuncGElement : SVGComponentTransferFunctionElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface SVGFEFuncRElement : SVGComponentTransferFunctionElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface SVGFEGaussianBlurElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter height
    getter in1
    getter result
    getter stdDeviationX
    getter stdDeviationY
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
    method setStdDeviation
interface SVGFEImageElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter height
    getter href
    getter preserveAspectRatio
    getter result
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
interface SVGFEMergeElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter height
    getter result
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
interface SVGFEMergeNodeElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter in1
    method constructor
interface SVGFEMorphologyElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute SVG_MORPHOLOGY_OPERATOR_DILATE
    attribute SVG_MORPHOLOGY_OPERATOR_ERODE
    attribute SVG_MORPHOLOGY_OPERATOR_UNKNOWN
    getter height
    getter in1
    getter operator
    getter radiusX
    getter radiusY
    getter result
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
interface SVGFEOffsetElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter dx
    getter dy
    getter height
    getter in1
    getter result
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
interface SVGFEPointLightElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter x
    getter y
    getter z
    method constructor
interface SVGFESpecularLightingElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter height
    getter in1
    getter kernelUnitLengthX
    getter kernelUnitLengthY
    getter result
    getter specularConstant
    getter specularExponent
    getter surfaceScale
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
interface SVGFESpotLightElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter limitingConeAngle
    getter pointsAtX
    getter pointsAtY
    getter pointsAtZ
    getter specularExponent
    getter x
    getter y
    getter z
    method constructor
interface SVGFETileElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter height
    getter in1
    getter result
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
interface SVGFETurbulenceElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute SVG_STITCHTYPE_NOSTITCH
    attribute SVG_STITCHTYPE_STITCH
    attribute SVG_STITCHTYPE_UNKNOWN
    attribute SVG_TURBULENCE_TYPE_FRACTALNOISE
    attribute SVG_TURBULENCE_TYPE_TURBULENCE
    attribute SVG_TURBULENCE_TYPE_UNKNOWN
    getter baseFrequencyX
    getter baseFrequencyY
    getter height
    getter numOctaves
    getter result
    getter seed
    getter stitchTiles
    getter type
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
interface SVGFilterElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter filterUnits
    getter height
    getter href
    getter primitiveUnits
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
interface SVGForeignObjectElement : SVGGraphicsElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter height
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
interface SVGGElement : SVGGraphicsElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface SVGGeometryElement : SVGGraphicsElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter pathLength
    method constructor
    method getPointAtLength
    method getTotalLength
    method isPointInFill
    method isPointInStroke
interface SVGGradientElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute SVG_SPREADMETHOD_PAD
    attribute SVG_SPREADMETHOD_REFLECT
    attribute SVG_SPREADMETHOD_REPEAT
    attribute SVG_SPREADMETHOD_UNKNOWN
    getter gradientTransform
    getter gradientUnits
    getter href
    getter spreadMethod
    method constructor
interface SVGGraphicsElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter farthestViewportElement
    getter nearestViewportElement
    getter requiredExtensions
    getter systemLanguage
    getter transform
    method constructor
    method getBBox
    method getCTM
    method getScreenCTM
interface SVGImageElement : SVGGraphicsElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter decoding
    getter height
    getter href
    getter preserveAspectRatio
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
    method decode
    setter decoding
interface SVGLength
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute SVG_LENGTHTYPE_CM
    attribute SVG_LENGTHTYPE_EMS
    attribute SVG_LENGTHTYPE_EXS
    attribute SVG_LENGTHTYPE_IN
    attribute SVG_LENGTHTYPE_MM
    attribute SVG_LENGTHTYPE_NUMBER
    attribute SVG_LENGTHTYPE_PC
    attribute SVG_LENGTHTYPE_PERCENTAGE
    attribute SVG_LENGTHTYPE_PT
    attribute SVG_LENGTHTYPE_PX
    attribute SVG_LENGTHTYPE_UNKNOWN
    getter unitType
    getter value
    getter valueAsString
    getter valueInSpecifiedUnits
    method constructor
    method convertToSpecifiedUnits
    method newValueSpecifiedUnits
    setter value
    setter valueAsString
    setter valueInSpecifiedUnits
interface SVGLengthList
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    getter numberOfItems
    method @@iterator
    method appendItem
    method clear
    method constructor
    method getItem
    method initialize
    method insertItemBefore
    method removeItem
    method replaceItem
interface SVGLineElement : SVGGeometryElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter x1
    getter x2
    getter y1
    getter y2
    method constructor
interface SVGLinearGradientElement : SVGGradientElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter x1
    getter x2
    getter y1
    getter y2
    method constructor
interface SVGMPathElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter href
    method constructor
interface SVGMarkerElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute SVG_MARKERUNITS_STROKEWIDTH
    attribute SVG_MARKERUNITS_UNKNOWN
    attribute SVG_MARKERUNITS_USERSPACEONUSE
    attribute SVG_MARKER_ORIENT_ANGLE
    attribute SVG_MARKER_ORIENT_AUTO
    attribute SVG_MARKER_ORIENT_UNKNOWN
    getter markerHeight
    getter markerUnits
    getter markerWidth
    getter orientAngle
    getter orientType
    getter preserveAspectRatio
    getter refX
    getter refY
    getter viewBox
    method constructor
    method setOrientToAngle
    method setOrientToAuto
interface SVGMaskElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter height
    getter maskContentUnits
    getter maskUnits
    getter requiredExtensions
    getter systemLanguage
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
interface SVGMatrix
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter a
    getter b
    getter c
    getter d
    getter e
    getter f
    method constructor
    method flipX
    method flipY
    method inverse
    method multiply
    method rotate
    method rotateFromVector
    method scale
    method scaleNonUniform
    method skewX
    method skewY
    method translate
    setter a
    setter b
    setter c
    setter d
    setter e
    setter f
interface SVGMetadataElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface SVGNumber
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter value
    method constructor
    setter value
interface SVGNumberList
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    getter numberOfItems
    method @@iterator
    method appendItem
    method clear
    method constructor
    method getItem
    method initialize
    method insertItemBefore
    method removeItem
    method replaceItem
interface SVGPathElement : SVGGeometryElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface SVGPatternElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter height
    getter href
    getter patternContentUnits
    getter patternTransform
    getter patternUnits
    getter preserveAspectRatio
    getter requiredExtensions
    getter systemLanguage
    getter viewBox
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
interface SVGPoint
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
    method matrixTransform
    setter x
    setter y
interface SVGPointList
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    getter numberOfItems
    method @@iterator
    method appendItem
    method clear
    method constructor
    method getItem
    method initialize
    method insertItemBefore
    method removeItem
    method replaceItem
interface SVGPolygonElement : SVGGeometryElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter animatedPoints
    getter points
    method constructor
interface SVGPolylineElement : SVGGeometryElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter animatedPoints
    getter points
    method constructor
interface SVGPreserveAspectRatio
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute SVG_MEETORSLICE_MEET
    attribute SVG_MEETORSLICE_SLICE
    attribute SVG_MEETORSLICE_UNKNOWN
    attribute SVG_PRESERVEASPECTRATIO_NONE
    attribute SVG_PRESERVEASPECTRATIO_UNKNOWN
    attribute SVG_PRESERVEASPECTRATIO_XMAXYMAX
    attribute SVG_PRESERVEASPECTRATIO_XMAXYMID
    attribute SVG_PRESERVEASPECTRATIO_XMAXYMIN
    attribute SVG_PRESERVEASPECTRATIO_XMIDYMAX
    attribute SVG_PRESERVEASPECTRATIO_XMIDYMID
    attribute SVG_PRESERVEASPECTRATIO_XMIDYMIN
    attribute SVG_PRESERVEASPECTRATIO_XMINYMAX
    attribute SVG_PRESERVEASPECTRATIO_XMINYMID
    attribute SVG_PRESERVEASPECTRATIO_XMINYMIN
    getter align
    getter meetOrSlice
    method constructor
    setter align
    setter meetOrSlice
interface SVGRadialGradientElement : SVGGradientElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter cx
    getter cy
    getter fr
    getter fx
    getter fy
    getter r
    method constructor
interface SVGRect
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter height
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
    setter height
    setter width
    setter x
    setter y
interface SVGRectElement : SVGGeometryElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter height
    getter rx
    getter ry
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
interface SVGSVGElement : SVGGraphicsElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute SVG_ZOOMANDPAN_DISABLE
    attribute SVG_ZOOMANDPAN_MAGNIFY
    attribute SVG_ZOOMANDPAN_UNKNOWN
    getter currentScale
    getter currentTranslate
    getter height
    getter preserveAspectRatio
    getter viewBox
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    getter zoomAndPan
    method animationsPaused
    method checkEnclosure
    method checkIntersection
    method constructor
    method createSVGAngle
    method createSVGLength
    method createSVGMatrix
    method createSVGNumber
    method createSVGPoint
    method createSVGRect
    method createSVGTransform
    method createSVGTransformFromMatrix
    method deselectAll
    method forceRedraw
    method getCurrentTime
    method getElementById
    method getEnclosureList
    method getIntersectionList
    method pauseAnimations
    method setCurrentTime
    method suspendRedraw
    method unpauseAnimations
    method unsuspendRedraw
    method unsuspendRedrawAll
    setter currentScale
    setter zoomAndPan
interface SVGScriptElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter href
    getter type
    method constructor
    setter type
interface SVGSetElement : SVGAnimationElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface SVGStopElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter offset
    method constructor
interface SVGStringList
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    getter numberOfItems
    method @@iterator
    method appendItem
    method clear
    method constructor
    method getItem
    method initialize
    method insertItemBefore
    method removeItem
    method replaceItem
interface SVGStyleElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter disabled
    getter media
    getter sheet
    getter title
    getter type
    method constructor
    setter disabled
    setter media
    setter title
    setter type
interface SVGSwitchElement : SVGGraphicsElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface SVGSymbolElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter preserveAspectRatio
    getter viewBox
    method constructor
interface SVGTSpanElement : SVGTextPositioningElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface SVGTextContentElement : SVGGraphicsElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute LENGTHADJUST_SPACING
    attribute LENGTHADJUST_SPACINGANDGLYPHS
    attribute LENGTHADJUST_UNKNOWN
    getter lengthAdjust
    getter textLength
    method constructor
    method getCharNumAtPosition
    method getComputedTextLength
    method getEndPositionOfChar
    method getExtentOfChar
    method getNumberOfChars
    method getRotationOfChar
    method getStartPositionOfChar
    method getSubStringLength
    method selectSubString
interface SVGTextElement : SVGTextPositioningElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface SVGTextPathElement : SVGTextContentElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute TEXTPATH_METHODTYPE_ALIGN
    attribute TEXTPATH_METHODTYPE_STRETCH
    attribute TEXTPATH_METHODTYPE_UNKNOWN
    attribute TEXTPATH_SPACINGTYPE_AUTO
    attribute TEXTPATH_SPACINGTYPE_EXACT
    attribute TEXTPATH_SPACINGTYPE_UNKNOWN
    getter href
    getter method
    getter spacing
    getter startOffset
    method constructor
interface SVGTextPositioningElement : SVGTextContentElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter dx
    getter dy
    getter rotate
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
interface SVGTitleElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface SVGTransform
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute SVG_TRANSFORM_MATRIX
    attribute SVG_TRANSFORM_ROTATE
    attribute SVG_TRANSFORM_SCALE
    attribute SVG_TRANSFORM_SKEWX
    attribute SVG_TRANSFORM_SKEWY
    attribute SVG_TRANSFORM_TRANSLATE
    attribute SVG_TRANSFORM_UNKNOWN
    getter angle
    getter matrix
    getter type
    method constructor
    method setMatrix
    method setRotate
    method setScale
    method setSkewX
    method setSkewY
    method setTranslate
interface SVGTransformList
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    getter numberOfItems
    method @@iterator
    method appendItem
    method clear
    method consolidate
    method constructor
    method createSVGTransformFromMatrix
    method getItem
    method initialize
    method insertItemBefore
    method removeItem
    method replaceItem
interface SVGUnitTypes
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute SVG_UNIT_TYPE_OBJECTBOUNDINGBOX
    attribute SVG_UNIT_TYPE_UNKNOWN
    attribute SVG_UNIT_TYPE_USERSPACEONUSE
    method constructor
interface SVGUseElement : SVGGraphicsElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter height
    getter href
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
interface SVGViewElement : SVGElement
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute SVG_ZOOMANDPAN_DISABLE
    attribute SVG_ZOOMANDPAN_MAGNIFY
    attribute SVG_ZOOMANDPAN_UNKNOWN
    getter preserveAspectRatio
    getter viewBox
    getter zoomAndPan
    method constructor
    setter zoomAndPan
interface Sanitizer
    static method getDefaultConfiguration
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method getConfiguration
interface Scheduler
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method postTask
interface Scheduling
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method isInputPending
interface Screen : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter availHeight
    getter availLeft
    getter availTop
    getter availWidth
    getter colorDepth
    getter height
    getter isExtended
    getter onchange
    getter orientation
    getter pixelDepth
    getter width
    method constructor
    setter onchange
interface ScreenDetailed : Screen
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter devicePixelRatio
    getter isInternal
    getter isPrimary
    getter label
    getter left
    getter top
    method constructor
interface ScreenDetails : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter currentScreen
    getter oncurrentscreenchange
    getter onscreenschange
    getter screens
    method constructor
    setter oncurrentscreenchange
    setter onscreenschange
interface ScreenOrientation : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter angle
    getter onchange
    getter type
    method constructor
    method lock
    method unlock
    setter onchange
interface ScriptProcessorNode : AudioNode
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter bufferSize
    getter onaudioprocess
    method constructor
    setter onaudioprocess
interface SecurityPolicyViolationEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter blockedURI
    getter columnNumber
    getter disposition
    getter documentURI
    getter effectiveDirective
    getter lineNumber
    getter originalPolicy
    getter referrer
    getter sample
    getter sourceFile
    getter statusCode
    getter violatedDirective
    method constructor
interface Selection
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter anchorNode
    getter anchorOffset
    getter baseNode
    getter baseOffset
    getter extentNode
    getter extentOffset
    getter focusNode
    getter focusOffset
    getter isCollapsed
    getter rangeCount
    getter type
    method addRange
    method collapse
    method collapseToEnd
    method collapseToStart
    method constructor
    method containsNode
    method deleteFromDocument
    method empty
    method extend
    method getRangeAt
    method modify
    method removeAllRanges
    method removeRange
    method selectAllChildren
    method setBaseAndExtent
    method setPosition
    method toString
interface Sensor : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter activated
    getter hasReading
    getter onactivate
    getter onerror
    getter onreading
    getter timestamp
    method constructor
    method start
    method stop
    setter onactivate
    setter onerror
    setter onreading
interface SensorErrorEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter error
    method constructor
interface Serial : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter onconnect
    getter ondisconnect
    method constructor
    method getPorts
    method requestPort
    setter onconnect
    setter ondisconnect
interface SerialPort : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter onconnect
    getter ondisconnect
    getter readable
    getter writable
    method close
    method constructor
    method forget
    method getInfo
    method getSignals
    method open
    method setSignals
    setter onconnect
    setter ondisconnect
interface ServiceWorker : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter onerror
    getter onstatechange
    getter scriptURL
    getter state
    method constructor
    method postMessage
    setter onerror
    setter onstatechange
interface ServiceWorkerContainer : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter controller
    getter oncontrollerchange
    getter onmessage
    getter onmessageerror
    getter ready
    method constructor
    method getRegistration
    method getRegistrations
    method register
    method startMessages
    setter oncontrollerchange
    setter onmessage
    setter onmessageerror
interface ServiceWorkerRegistration : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter active
    getter backgroundFetch
    getter cookies
    getter installing
    getter navigationPreload
    getter onupdatefound
    getter paymentManager
    getter periodicSync
    getter pushManager
    getter scope
    getter sync
    getter updateViaCache
    getter waiting
    method constructor
    method getNotifications
    method showNotification
    method unregister
    method update
    setter onupdatefound
interface ShadowRoot : DocumentFragment
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter activeElement
    getter adoptedStyleSheets
    getter delegatesFocus
    getter fullscreenElement
    getter host
    getter innerHTML
    getter mode
    getter onslotchange
    getter pictureInPictureElement
    getter pointerLockElement
    getter slotAssignment
    getter styleSheets
    method constructor
    method elementFromPoint
    method elementsFromPoint
    method getAnimations
    method getInnerHTML
    method getSelection
    setter adoptedStyleSheets
    setter fullscreenElement
    setter innerHTML
    setter onslotchange
interface SharedWorker : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter onerror
    getter port
    method constructor
    setter onerror
interface SourceBuffer : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter appendWindowEnd
    getter appendWindowStart
    getter buffered
    getter mode
    getter onabort
    getter onerror
    getter onupdate
    getter onupdateend
    getter onupdatestart
    getter timestampOffset
    getter updating
    method abort
    method appendBuffer
    method changeType
    method constructor
    method remove
    setter appendWindowEnd
    setter appendWindowStart
    setter mode
    setter onabort
    setter onerror
    setter onupdate
    setter onupdateend
    setter onupdatestart
    setter timestampOffset
interface SourceBufferList : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    getter onaddsourcebuffer
    getter onremovesourcebuffer
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    setter onaddsourcebuffer
    setter onremovesourcebuffer
interface SpeechSynthesisErrorEvent : SpeechSynthesisEvent
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter error
    method constructor
interface SpeechSynthesisEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter charIndex
    getter charLength
    getter elapsedTime
    getter name
    getter utterance
    method constructor
interface SpeechSynthesisUtterance : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter lang
    getter onboundary
    getter onend
    getter onerror
    getter onmark
    getter onpause
    getter onresume
    getter onstart
    getter pitch
    getter rate
    getter text
    getter voice
    getter volume
    method constructor
    setter lang
    setter onboundary
    setter onend
    setter onerror
    setter onmark
    setter onpause
    setter onresume
    setter onstart
    setter pitch
    setter rate
    setter text
    setter voice
    setter volume
interface StaticRange : AbstractRange
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface StereoPannerNode : AudioNode
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter pan
    method constructor
interface Storage
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    method clear
    method constructor
    method getItem
    method key
    method removeItem
    method setItem
interface StorageEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter key
    getter newValue
    getter oldValue
    getter storageArea
    getter url
    method constructor
    method initStorageEvent
interface StorageManager : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method estimate
    method getDirectory
    method persist
    method persisted
interface StylePropertyMap : StylePropertyMapReadOnly
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method append
    method clear
    method constructor
    method delete
    method set
interface StylePropertyMapReadOnly
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter size
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method entries
    method forEach
    method get
    method getAll
    method has
    method keys
    method values
interface StyleSheet
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter disabled
    getter href
    getter media
    getter ownerNode
    getter parentStyleSheet
    getter title
    getter type
    method constructor
    setter disabled
    setter media
interface StyleSheetList
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method item
interface SubmitEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter submitter
    method constructor
interface SubtleCrypto
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method decrypt
    method deriveBits
    method deriveKey
    method digest
    method encrypt
    method exportKey
    method generateKey
    method importKey
    method sign
    method unwrapKey
    method verify
    method wrapKey
interface SyncManager
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method getTags
    method register
interface TaskAttributionTiming : PerformanceEntry
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter containerId
    getter containerName
    getter containerSrc
    getter containerType
    method constructor
    method toJSON
interface TaskController : AbortController
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method setPriority
interface TaskPriorityChangeEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter previousPriority
    method constructor
interface TaskSignal : AbortSignal
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter onprioritychange
    getter priority
    method constructor
    setter onprioritychange
interface Text : CharacterData
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter assignedSlot
    getter wholeText
    method constructor
    method splitText
interface TextDecoder
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter encoding
    getter fatal
    getter ignoreBOM
    method constructor
    method decode
interface TextDecoderStream
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter encoding
    getter fatal
    getter ignoreBOM
    getter readable
    getter writable
    method constructor
interface TextEncoder
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter encoding
    method constructor
    method encode
    method encodeInto
interface TextEncoderStream
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter encoding
    getter readable
    getter writable
    method constructor
interface TextEvent : UIEvent
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter data
    method constructor
    method initTextEvent
interface TextMetrics
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter actualBoundingBoxAscent
    getter actualBoundingBoxDescent
    getter actualBoundingBoxLeft
    getter actualBoundingBoxRight
    getter fontBoundingBoxAscent
    getter fontBoundingBoxDescent
    getter width
    method constructor
interface TextTrack : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter activeCues
    getter cues
    getter id
    getter kind
    getter label
    getter language
    getter mode
    getter oncuechange
    method addCue
    method constructor
    method removeCue
    setter mode
    setter oncuechange
interface TextTrackCue : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter endTime
    getter id
    getter onenter
    getter onexit
    getter pauseOnExit
    getter startTime
    getter track
    method constructor
    setter endTime
    setter id
    setter onenter
    setter onexit
    setter pauseOnExit
    setter startTime
interface TextTrackCueList
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method getCueById
interface TextTrackList : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    getter onaddtrack
    getter onchange
    getter onremovetrack
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method getTrackById
    setter onaddtrack
    setter onchange
    setter onremovetrack
interface TimeRanges
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    method constructor
    method end
    method start
interface ToggleEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter newState
    getter oldState
    method constructor
interface Touch
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter clientX
    getter clientY
    getter force
    getter identifier
    getter pageX
    getter pageY
    getter radiusX
    getter radiusY
    getter rotationAngle
    getter screenX
    getter screenY
    getter target
    method constructor
interface TouchEvent : UIEvent
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter altKey
    getter changedTouches
    getter ctrlKey
    getter metaKey
    getter shiftKey
    getter targetTouches
    getter touches
    method constructor
interface TouchList
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method item
interface TrackEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter track
    method constructor
interface TransformStream
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter readable
    getter writable
    method constructor
interface TransformStreamDefaultController
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter desiredSize
    method constructor
    method enqueue
    method error
    method terminate
interface TransitionEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter elapsedTime
    getter propertyName
    getter pseudoElement
    method constructor
interface TreeWalker
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter currentNode
    getter filter
    getter root
    getter whatToShow
    method constructor
    method firstChild
    method lastChild
    method nextNode
    method nextSibling
    method parentNode
    method previousNode
    method previousSibling
    setter currentNode
interface TrustedHTML
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method toJSON
    method toString
interface TrustedScript
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method toJSON
    method toString
interface TrustedScriptURL
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method toJSON
    method toString
interface TrustedTypePolicy
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter name
    method constructor
    method createHTML
    method createScript
    method createScriptURL
interface TrustedTypePolicyFactory : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter defaultPolicy
    getter emptyHTML
    getter emptyScript
    method constructor
    method createPolicy
    method getAttributeType
    method getPropertyType
    method getTypeMapping
    method isHTML
    method isScript
    method isScriptURL
interface UIEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter detail
    getter sourceCapabilities
    getter view
    getter which
    method constructor
    method initUIEvent
interface URL
    static method createObjectURL
    static method revokeObjectURL
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter hash
    getter host
    getter hostname
    getter href
    getter origin
    getter password
    getter pathname
    getter port
    getter protocol
    getter search
    getter searchParams
    getter username
    method constructor
    method toJSON
    method toString
    setter hash
    setter host
    setter hostname
    setter href
    setter password
    setter pathname
    setter port
    setter protocol
    setter search
    setter username
interface URLPattern
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter hash
    getter hostname
    getter password
    getter pathname
    getter port
    getter protocol
    getter search
    getter username
    method constructor
    method exec
    method test
interface URLSearchParams
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter size
    method @@iterator
    method append
    method constructor
    method delete
    method entries
    method forEach
    method get
    method getAll
    method has
    method keys
    method set
    method sort
    method toString
    method values
interface USB : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter onconnect
    getter ondisconnect
    method constructor
    method getDevices
    method requestDevice
    setter onconnect
    setter ondisconnect
interface USBAlternateInterface
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter alternateSetting
    getter endpoints
    getter interfaceClass
    getter interfaceName
    getter interfaceProtocol
    getter interfaceSubclass
    method constructor
interface USBConfiguration
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter configurationName
    getter configurationValue
    getter interfaces
    method constructor
interface USBConnectionEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter device
    method constructor
interface USBDevice
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter configuration
    getter configurations
    getter deviceClass
    getter deviceProtocol
    getter deviceSubclass
    getter deviceVersionMajor
    getter deviceVersionMinor
    getter deviceVersionSubminor
    getter manufacturerName
    getter opened
    getter productId
    getter productName
    getter serialNumber
    getter usbVersionMajor
    getter usbVersionMinor
    getter usbVersionSubminor
    getter vendorId
    method claimInterface
    method clearHalt
    method close
    method constructor
    method controlTransferIn
    method controlTransferOut
    method forget
    method isochronousTransferIn
    method isochronousTransferOut
    method open
    method releaseInterface
    method reset
    method selectAlternateInterface
    method selectConfiguration
    method transferIn
    method transferOut
interface USBEndpoint
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter direction
    getter endpointNumber
    getter packetSize
    getter type
    method constructor
interface USBInTransferResult
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter data
    getter status
    method constructor
interface USBInterface
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter alternate
    getter alternates
    getter claimed
    getter interfaceNumber
    method constructor
interface USBIsochronousInTransferPacket
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter data
    getter status
    method constructor
interface USBIsochronousInTransferResult
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter data
    getter packets
    method constructor
interface USBIsochronousOutTransferPacket
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter bytesWritten
    getter status
    method constructor
interface USBIsochronousOutTransferResult
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter packets
    method constructor
interface USBOutTransferResult
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter bytesWritten
    getter status
    method constructor
interface UserActivation
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter hasBeenActive
    getter isActive
    method constructor
interface VTTCue : TextTrackCue
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter align
    getter line
    getter position
    getter size
    getter snapToLines
    getter text
    getter vertical
    method constructor
    method getCueAsHTML
    setter align
    setter line
    setter position
    setter size
    setter snapToLines
    setter text
    setter vertical
interface ValidityState
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter badInput
    getter customError
    getter patternMismatch
    getter rangeOverflow
    getter rangeUnderflow
    getter stepMismatch
    getter tooLong
    getter tooShort
    getter typeMismatch
    getter valid
    getter valueMissing
    method constructor
interface VideoColorSpace
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter fullRange
    getter matrix
    getter primaries
    getter transfer
    method constructor
    method toJSON
interface VideoDecoder : EventTarget
    static method isConfigSupported
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter decodeQueueSize
    getter ondequeue
    getter state
    method close
    method configure
    method constructor
    method decode
    method flush
    method reset
    setter ondequeue
interface VideoEncoder : EventTarget
    static method isConfigSupported
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter encodeQueueSize
    getter ondequeue
    getter state
    method close
    method configure
    method constructor
    method encode
    method flush
    method reset
    setter ondequeue
interface VideoFrame
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter codedHeight
    getter codedRect
    getter codedWidth
    getter colorSpace
    getter displayHeight
    getter displayWidth
    getter duration
    getter format
    getter timestamp
    getter visibleRect
    method allocationSize
    method clone
    method close
    method constructor
    method copyTo
interface VideoPlaybackQuality
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter corruptedVideoFrames
    getter creationTime
    getter droppedVideoFrames
    getter totalVideoFrames
    method constructor
interface ViewTransition
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter finished
    getter ready
    getter updateCallbackDone
    method constructor
    method skipTransition
interface VirtualKeyboard : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter boundingRect
    getter ongeometrychange
    getter overlaysContent
    method constructor
    method hide
    method show
    setter ongeometrychange
    setter overlaysContent
interface VirtualKeyboardGeometryChangeEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface VisualViewport : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter height
    getter offsetLeft
    getter offsetTop
    getter onresize
    getter onscroll
    getter pageLeft
    getter pageTop
    getter scale
    getter width
    method constructor
    setter onresize
    setter onscroll
interface WakeLock
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method request
interface WakeLockSentinel : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter onrelease
    getter released
    getter type
    method constructor
    method release
    setter onrelease
interface WaveShaperNode : AudioNode
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter curve
    getter oversample
    method constructor
    setter curve
    setter oversample
interface WebGL2RenderingContext
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute ACTIVE_ATTRIBUTES
    attribute ACTIVE_TEXTURE
    attribute ACTIVE_UNIFORMS
    attribute ACTIVE_UNIFORM_BLOCKS
    attribute ALIASED_LINE_WIDTH_RANGE
    attribute ALIASED_POINT_SIZE_RANGE
    attribute ALPHA
    attribute ALPHA_BITS
    attribute ALREADY_SIGNALED
    attribute ALWAYS
    attribute ANY_SAMPLES_PASSED
    attribute ANY_SAMPLES_PASSED_CONSERVATIVE
    attribute ARRAY_BUFFER
    attribute ARRAY_BUFFER_BINDING
    attribute ATTACHED_SHADERS
    attribute BACK
    attribute BLEND
    attribute BLEND_COLOR
    attribute BLEND_DST_ALPHA
    attribute BLEND_DST_RGB
    attribute BLEND_EQUATION
    attribute BLEND_EQUATION_ALPHA
    attribute BLEND_EQUATION_RGB
    attribute BLEND_SRC_ALPHA
    attribute BLEND_SRC_RGB
    attribute BLUE_BITS
    attribute BOOL
    attribute BOOL_VEC2
    attribute BOOL_VEC3
    attribute BOOL_VEC4
    attribute BROWSER_DEFAULT_WEBGL
    attribute BUFFER_SIZE
    attribute BUFFER_USAGE
    attribute BYTE
    attribute CCW
    attribute CLAMP_TO_EDGE
    attribute COLOR
    attribute COLOR_ATTACHMENT0
    attribute COLOR_ATTACHMENT1
    attribute COLOR_ATTACHMENT10
    attribute COLOR_ATTACHMENT11
    attribute COLOR_ATTACHMENT12
    attribute COLOR_ATTACHMENT13
    attribute COLOR_ATTACHMENT14
    attribute COLOR_ATTACHMENT15
    attribute COLOR_ATTACHMENT2
    attribute COLOR_ATTACHMENT3
    attribute COLOR_ATTACHMENT4
    attribute COLOR_ATTACHMENT5
    attribute COLOR_ATTACHMENT6
    attribute COLOR_ATTACHMENT7
    attribute COLOR_ATTACHMENT8
    attribute COLOR_ATTACHMENT9
    attribute COLOR_BUFFER_BIT
    attribute COLOR_CLEAR_VALUE
    attribute COLOR_WRITEMASK
    attribute COMPARE_REF_TO_TEXTURE
    attribute COMPILE_STATUS
    attribute COMPRESSED_TEXTURE_FORMATS
    attribute CONDITION_SATISFIED
    attribute CONSTANT_ALPHA
    attribute CONSTANT_COLOR
    attribute CONTEXT_LOST_WEBGL
    attribute COPY_READ_BUFFER
    attribute COPY_READ_BUFFER_BINDING
    attribute COPY_WRITE_BUFFER
    attribute COPY_WRITE_BUFFER_BINDING
    attribute CULL_FACE
    attribute CULL_FACE_MODE
    attribute CURRENT_PROGRAM
    attribute CURRENT_QUERY
    attribute CURRENT_VERTEX_ATTRIB
    attribute CW
    attribute DECR
    attribute DECR_WRAP
    attribute DELETE_STATUS
    attribute DEPTH
    attribute DEPTH24_STENCIL8
    attribute DEPTH32F_STENCIL8
    attribute DEPTH_ATTACHMENT
    attribute DEPTH_BITS
    attribute DEPTH_BUFFER_BIT
    attribute DEPTH_CLEAR_VALUE
    attribute DEPTH_COMPONENT
    attribute DEPTH_COMPONENT16
    attribute DEPTH_COMPONENT24
    attribute DEPTH_COMPONENT32F
    attribute DEPTH_FUNC
    attribute DEPTH_RANGE
    attribute DEPTH_STENCIL
    attribute DEPTH_STENCIL_ATTACHMENT
    attribute DEPTH_TEST
    attribute DEPTH_WRITEMASK
    attribute DITHER
    attribute DONT_CARE
    attribute DRAW_BUFFER0
    attribute DRAW_BUFFER1
    attribute DRAW_BUFFER10
    attribute DRAW_BUFFER11
    attribute DRAW_BUFFER12
    attribute DRAW_BUFFER13
    attribute DRAW_BUFFER14
    attribute DRAW_BUFFER15
    attribute DRAW_BUFFER2
    attribute DRAW_BUFFER3
    attribute DRAW_BUFFER4
    attribute DRAW_BUFFER5
    attribute DRAW_BUFFER6
    attribute DRAW_BUFFER7
    attribute DRAW_BUFFER8
    attribute DRAW_BUFFER9
    attribute DRAW_FRAMEBUFFER
    attribute DRAW_FRAMEBUFFER_BINDING
    attribute DST_ALPHA
    attribute DST_COLOR
    attribute DYNAMIC_COPY
    attribute DYNAMIC_DRAW
    attribute DYNAMIC_READ
    attribute ELEMENT_ARRAY_BUFFER
    attribute ELEMENT_ARRAY_BUFFER_BINDING
    attribute EQUAL
    attribute FASTEST
    attribute FLOAT
    attribute FLOAT_32_UNSIGNED_INT_24_8_REV
    attribute FLOAT_MAT2
    attribute FLOAT_MAT2x3
    attribute FLOAT_MAT2x4
    attribute FLOAT_MAT3
    attribute FLOAT_MAT3x2
    attribute FLOAT_MAT3x4
    attribute FLOAT_MAT4
    attribute FLOAT_MAT4x2
    attribute FLOAT_MAT4x3
    attribute FLOAT_VEC2
    attribute FLOAT_VEC3
    attribute FLOAT_VEC4
    attribute FRAGMENT_SHADER
    attribute FRAGMENT_SHADER_DERIVATIVE_HINT
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_ATTACHMENT_ALPHA_SIZE
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_ATTACHMENT_BLUE_SIZE
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_ATTACHMENT_COLOR_ENCODING
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_ATTACHMENT_COMPONENT_TYPE
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_ATTACHMENT_DEPTH_SIZE
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_ATTACHMENT_GREEN_SIZE
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_ATTACHMENT_OBJECT_NAME
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_ATTACHMENT_OBJECT_TYPE
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_ATTACHMENT_RED_SIZE
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_ATTACHMENT_STENCIL_SIZE
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_ATTACHMENT_TEXTURE_CUBE_MAP_FACE
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_ATTACHMENT_TEXTURE_LAYER
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_ATTACHMENT_TEXTURE_LEVEL
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_BINDING
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_COMPLETE
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_DEFAULT
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_INCOMPLETE_ATTACHMENT
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_INCOMPLETE_DIMENSIONS
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_INCOMPLETE_MISSING_ATTACHMENT
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_INCOMPLETE_MULTISAMPLE
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_UNSUPPORTED
    attribute FRONT
    attribute FRONT_AND_BACK
    attribute FRONT_FACE
    attribute FUNC_ADD
    attribute FUNC_REVERSE_SUBTRACT
    attribute FUNC_SUBTRACT
    attribute GENERATE_MIPMAP_HINT
    attribute GEQUAL
    attribute GREATER
    attribute GREEN_BITS
    attribute HALF_FLOAT
    attribute HIGH_FLOAT
    attribute HIGH_INT
    attribute IMPLEMENTATION_COLOR_READ_FORMAT
    attribute IMPLEMENTATION_COLOR_READ_TYPE
    attribute INCR
    attribute INCR_WRAP
    attribute INT
    attribute INTERLEAVED_ATTRIBS
    attribute INT_2_10_10_10_REV
    attribute INT_SAMPLER_2D
    attribute INT_SAMPLER_2D_ARRAY
    attribute INT_SAMPLER_3D
    attribute INT_SAMPLER_CUBE
    attribute INT_VEC2
    attribute INT_VEC3
    attribute INT_VEC4
    attribute INVALID_ENUM
    attribute INVALID_FRAMEBUFFER_OPERATION
    attribute INVALID_INDEX
    attribute INVALID_OPERATION
    attribute INVALID_VALUE
    attribute INVERT
    attribute KEEP
    attribute LEQUAL
    attribute LESS
    attribute LINEAR
    attribute LINEAR_MIPMAP_LINEAR
    attribute LINEAR_MIPMAP_NEAREST
    attribute LINES
    attribute LINE_LOOP
    attribute LINE_STRIP
    attribute LINE_WIDTH
    attribute LINK_STATUS
    attribute LOW_FLOAT
    attribute LOW_INT
    attribute LUMINANCE
    attribute LUMINANCE_ALPHA
    attribute MAX
    attribute MAX_3D_TEXTURE_SIZE
    attribute MAX_ARRAY_TEXTURE_LAYERS
    attribute MAX_CLIENT_WAIT_TIMEOUT_WEBGL
    attribute MAX_COLOR_ATTACHMENTS
    attribute MAX_COMBINED_FRAGMENT_UNIFORM_COMPONENTS
    attribute MAX_COMBINED_TEXTURE_IMAGE_UNITS
    attribute MAX_COMBINED_UNIFORM_BLOCKS
    attribute MAX_COMBINED_VERTEX_UNIFORM_COMPONENTS
    attribute MAX_CUBE_MAP_TEXTURE_SIZE
    attribute MAX_DRAW_BUFFERS
    attribute MAX_ELEMENTS_INDICES
    attribute MAX_ELEMENTS_VERTICES
    attribute MAX_ELEMENT_INDEX
    attribute MAX_FRAGMENT_INPUT_COMPONENTS
    attribute MAX_FRAGMENT_UNIFORM_BLOCKS
    attribute MAX_FRAGMENT_UNIFORM_COMPONENTS
    attribute MAX_FRAGMENT_UNIFORM_VECTORS
    attribute MAX_PROGRAM_TEXEL_OFFSET
    attribute MAX_RENDERBUFFER_SIZE
    attribute MAX_SAMPLES
    attribute MAX_SERVER_WAIT_TIMEOUT
    attribute MAX_TEXTURE_IMAGE_UNITS
    attribute MAX_TEXTURE_LOD_BIAS
    attribute MAX_TEXTURE_SIZE
    attribute MAX_TRANSFORM_FEEDBACK_INTERLEAVED_COMPONENTS
    attribute MAX_TRANSFORM_FEEDBACK_SEPARATE_ATTRIBS
    attribute MAX_TRANSFORM_FEEDBACK_SEPARATE_COMPONENTS
    attribute MAX_UNIFORM_BLOCK_SIZE
    attribute MAX_UNIFORM_BUFFER_BINDINGS
    attribute MAX_VARYING_COMPONENTS
    attribute MAX_VARYING_VECTORS
    attribute MAX_VERTEX_ATTRIBS
    attribute MAX_VERTEX_OUTPUT_COMPONENTS
    attribute MAX_VERTEX_TEXTURE_IMAGE_UNITS
    attribute MAX_VERTEX_UNIFORM_BLOCKS
    attribute MAX_VERTEX_UNIFORM_COMPONENTS
    attribute MAX_VERTEX_UNIFORM_VECTORS
    attribute MAX_VIEWPORT_DIMS
    attribute MEDIUM_FLOAT
    attribute MEDIUM_INT
    attribute MIN
    attribute MIN_PROGRAM_TEXEL_OFFSET
    attribute MIRRORED_REPEAT
    attribute NEAREST
    attribute NEAREST_MIPMAP_LINEAR
    attribute NEAREST_MIPMAP_NEAREST
    attribute NEVER
    attribute NICEST
    attribute NONE
    attribute NOTEQUAL
    attribute NO_ERROR
    attribute OBJECT_TYPE
    attribute ONE
    attribute ONE_MINUS_CONSTANT_ALPHA
    attribute ONE_MINUS_CONSTANT_COLOR
    attribute ONE_MINUS_DST_ALPHA
    attribute ONE_MINUS_DST_COLOR
    attribute ONE_MINUS_SRC_ALPHA
    attribute ONE_MINUS_SRC_COLOR
    attribute OUT_OF_MEMORY
    attribute PACK_ALIGNMENT
    attribute PACK_ROW_LENGTH
    attribute PACK_SKIP_PIXELS
    attribute PACK_SKIP_ROWS
    attribute PIXEL_PACK_BUFFER
    attribute PIXEL_PACK_BUFFER_BINDING
    attribute PIXEL_UNPACK_BUFFER
    attribute PIXEL_UNPACK_BUFFER_BINDING
    attribute POINTS
    attribute POLYGON_OFFSET_FACTOR
    attribute POLYGON_OFFSET_FILL
    attribute POLYGON_OFFSET_UNITS
    attribute QUERY_RESULT
    attribute QUERY_RESULT_AVAILABLE
    attribute R11F_G11F_B10F
    attribute R16F
    attribute R16I
    attribute R16UI
    attribute R32F
    attribute R32I
    attribute R32UI
    attribute R8
    attribute R8I
    attribute R8UI
    attribute R8_SNORM
    attribute RASTERIZER_DISCARD
    attribute READ_BUFFER
    attribute READ_FRAMEBUFFER
    attribute READ_FRAMEBUFFER_BINDING
    attribute RED
    attribute RED_BITS
    attribute RED_INTEGER
    attribute RENDERBUFFER
    attribute RENDERBUFFER_ALPHA_SIZE
    attribute RENDERBUFFER_BINDING
    attribute RENDERBUFFER_BLUE_SIZE
    attribute RENDERBUFFER_DEPTH_SIZE
    attribute RENDERBUFFER_GREEN_SIZE
    attribute RENDERBUFFER_HEIGHT
    attribute RENDERBUFFER_INTERNAL_FORMAT
    attribute RENDERBUFFER_RED_SIZE
    attribute RENDERBUFFER_SAMPLES
    attribute RENDERBUFFER_STENCIL_SIZE
    attribute RENDERBUFFER_WIDTH
    attribute RENDERER
    attribute REPEAT
    attribute REPLACE
    attribute RG
    attribute RG16F
    attribute RG16I
    attribute RG16UI
    attribute RG32F
    attribute RG32I
    attribute RG32UI
    attribute RG8
    attribute RG8I
    attribute RG8UI
    attribute RG8_SNORM
    attribute RGB
    attribute RGB10_A2
    attribute RGB10_A2UI
    attribute RGB16F
    attribute RGB16I
    attribute RGB16UI
    attribute RGB32F
    attribute RGB32I
    attribute RGB32UI
    attribute RGB565
    attribute RGB5_A1
    attribute RGB8
    attribute RGB8I
    attribute RGB8UI
    attribute RGB8_SNORM
    attribute RGB9_E5
    attribute RGBA
    attribute RGBA16F
    attribute RGBA16I
    attribute RGBA16UI
    attribute RGBA32F
    attribute RGBA32I
    attribute RGBA32UI
    attribute RGBA4
    attribute RGBA8
    attribute RGBA8I
    attribute RGBA8UI
    attribute RGBA8_SNORM
    attribute RGBA_INTEGER
    attribute RGB_INTEGER
    attribute RG_INTEGER
    attribute SAMPLER_2D
    attribute SAMPLER_2D_ARRAY
    attribute SAMPLER_2D_ARRAY_SHADOW
    attribute SAMPLER_2D_SHADOW
    attribute SAMPLER_3D
    attribute SAMPLER_BINDING
    attribute SAMPLER_CUBE
    attribute SAMPLER_CUBE_SHADOW
    attribute SAMPLES
    attribute SAMPLE_ALPHA_TO_COVERAGE
    attribute SAMPLE_BUFFERS
    attribute SAMPLE_COVERAGE
    attribute SAMPLE_COVERAGE_INVERT
    attribute SAMPLE_COVERAGE_VALUE
    attribute SCISSOR_BOX
    attribute SCISSOR_TEST
    attribute SEPARATE_ATTRIBS
    attribute SHADER_TYPE
    attribute SHADING_LANGUAGE_VERSION
    attribute SHORT
    attribute SIGNALED
    attribute SIGNED_NORMALIZED
    attribute SRC_ALPHA
    attribute SRC_ALPHA_SATURATE
    attribute SRC_COLOR
    attribute SRGB
    attribute SRGB8
    attribute SRGB8_ALPHA8
    attribute STATIC_COPY
    attribute STATIC_DRAW
    attribute STATIC_READ
    attribute STENCIL
    attribute STENCIL_ATTACHMENT
    attribute STENCIL_BACK_FAIL
    attribute STENCIL_BACK_FUNC
    attribute STENCIL_BACK_PASS_DEPTH_FAIL
    attribute STENCIL_BACK_PASS_DEPTH_PASS
    attribute STENCIL_BACK_REF
    attribute STENCIL_BACK_VALUE_MASK
    attribute STENCIL_BACK_WRITEMASK
    attribute STENCIL_BITS
    attribute STENCIL_BUFFER_BIT
    attribute STENCIL_CLEAR_VALUE
    attribute STENCIL_FAIL
    attribute STENCIL_FUNC
    attribute STENCIL_INDEX8
    attribute STENCIL_PASS_DEPTH_FAIL
    attribute STENCIL_PASS_DEPTH_PASS
    attribute STENCIL_REF
    attribute STENCIL_TEST
    attribute STENCIL_VALUE_MASK
    attribute STENCIL_WRITEMASK
    attribute STREAM_COPY
    attribute STREAM_DRAW
    attribute STREAM_READ
    attribute SUBPIXEL_BITS
    attribute SYNC_CONDITION
    attribute SYNC_FENCE
    attribute SYNC_FLAGS
    attribute SYNC_FLUSH_COMMANDS_BIT
    attribute SYNC_GPU_COMMANDS_COMPLETE
    attribute SYNC_STATUS
    attribute TEXTURE
    attribute TEXTURE0
    attribute TEXTURE1
    attribute TEXTURE10
    attribute TEXTURE11
    attribute TEXTURE12
    attribute TEXTURE13
    attribute TEXTURE14
    attribute TEXTURE15
    attribute TEXTURE16
    attribute TEXTURE17
    attribute TEXTURE18
    attribute TEXTURE19
    attribute TEXTURE2
    attribute TEXTURE20
    attribute TEXTURE21
    attribute TEXTURE22
    attribute TEXTURE23
    attribute TEXTURE24
    attribute TEXTURE25
    attribute TEXTURE26
    attribute TEXTURE27
    attribute TEXTURE28
    attribute TEXTURE29
    attribute TEXTURE3
    attribute TEXTURE30
    attribute TEXTURE31
    attribute TEXTURE4
    attribute TEXTURE5
    attribute TEXTURE6
    attribute TEXTURE7
    attribute TEXTURE8
    attribute TEXTURE9
    attribute TEXTURE_2D
    attribute TEXTURE_2D_ARRAY
    attribute TEXTURE_3D
    attribute TEXTURE_BASE_LEVEL
    attribute TEXTURE_BINDING_2D
    attribute TEXTURE_BINDING_2D_ARRAY
    attribute TEXTURE_BINDING_3D
    attribute TEXTURE_BINDING_CUBE_MAP
    attribute TEXTURE_COMPARE_FUNC
    attribute TEXTURE_COMPARE_MODE
    attribute TEXTURE_CUBE_MAP
    attribute TEXTURE_CUBE_MAP_NEGATIVE_X
    attribute TEXTURE_CUBE_MAP_NEGATIVE_Y
    attribute TEXTURE_CUBE_MAP_NEGATIVE_Z
    attribute TEXTURE_CUBE_MAP_POSITIVE_X
    attribute TEXTURE_CUBE_MAP_POSITIVE_Y
    attribute TEXTURE_CUBE_MAP_POSITIVE_Z
    attribute TEXTURE_IMMUTABLE_FORMAT
    attribute TEXTURE_IMMUTABLE_LEVELS
    attribute TEXTURE_MAG_FILTER
    attribute TEXTURE_MAX_LEVEL
    attribute TEXTURE_MAX_LOD
    attribute TEXTURE_MIN_FILTER
    attribute TEXTURE_MIN_LOD
    attribute TEXTURE_WRAP_R
    attribute TEXTURE_WRAP_S
    attribute TEXTURE_WRAP_T
    attribute TIMEOUT_EXPIRED
    attribute TIMEOUT_IGNORED
    attribute TRANSFORM_FEEDBACK
    attribute TRANSFORM_FEEDBACK_ACTIVE
    attribute TRANSFORM_FEEDBACK_BINDING
    attribute TRANSFORM_FEEDBACK_BUFFER
    attribute TRANSFORM_FEEDBACK_BUFFER_BINDING
    attribute TRANSFORM_FEEDBACK_BUFFER_MODE
    attribute TRANSFORM_FEEDBACK_BUFFER_SIZE
    attribute TRANSFORM_FEEDBACK_BUFFER_START
    attribute TRANSFORM_FEEDBACK_PAUSED
    attribute TRANSFORM_FEEDBACK_PRIMITIVES_WRITTEN
    attribute TRANSFORM_FEEDBACK_VARYINGS
    attribute TRIANGLES
    attribute TRIANGLE_FAN
    attribute TRIANGLE_STRIP
    attribute UNIFORM_ARRAY_STRIDE
    attribute UNIFORM_BLOCK_ACTIVE_UNIFORMS
    attribute UNIFORM_BLOCK_ACTIVE_UNIFORM_INDICES
    attribute UNIFORM_BLOCK_BINDING
    attribute UNIFORM_BLOCK_DATA_SIZE
    attribute UNIFORM_BLOCK_INDEX
    attribute UNIFORM_BLOCK_REFERENCED_BY_FRAGMENT_SHADER
    attribute UNIFORM_BLOCK_REFERENCED_BY_VERTEX_SHADER
    attribute UNIFORM_BUFFER
    attribute UNIFORM_BUFFER_BINDING
    attribute UNIFORM_BUFFER_OFFSET_ALIGNMENT
    attribute UNIFORM_BUFFER_SIZE
    attribute UNIFORM_BUFFER_START
    attribute UNIFORM_IS_ROW_MAJOR
    attribute UNIFORM_MATRIX_STRIDE
    attribute UNIFORM_OFFSET
    attribute UNIFORM_SIZE
    attribute UNIFORM_TYPE
    attribute UNPACK_ALIGNMENT
    attribute UNPACK_COLORSPACE_CONVERSION_WEBGL
    attribute UNPACK_FLIP_Y_WEBGL
    attribute UNPACK_IMAGE_HEIGHT
    attribute UNPACK_PREMULTIPLY_ALPHA_WEBGL
    attribute UNPACK_ROW_LENGTH
    attribute UNPACK_SKIP_IMAGES
    attribute UNPACK_SKIP_PIXELS
    attribute UNPACK_SKIP_ROWS
    attribute UNSIGNALED
    attribute UNSIGNED_BYTE
    attribute UNSIGNED_INT
    attribute UNSIGNED_INT_10F_11F_11F_REV
    attribute UNSIGNED_INT_24_8
    attribute UNSIGNED_INT_2_10_10_10_REV
    attribute UNSIGNED_INT_5_9_9_9_REV
    attribute UNSIGNED_INT_SAMPLER_2D
    attribute UNSIGNED_INT_SAMPLER_2D_ARRAY
    attribute UNSIGNED_INT_SAMPLER_3D
    attribute UNSIGNED_INT_SAMPLER_CUBE
    attribute UNSIGNED_INT_VEC2
    attribute UNSIGNED_INT_VEC3
    attribute UNSIGNED_INT_VEC4
    attribute UNSIGNED_NORMALIZED
    attribute UNSIGNED_SHORT
    attribute UNSIGNED_SHORT_4_4_4_4
    attribute UNSIGNED_SHORT_5_5_5_1
    attribute UNSIGNED_SHORT_5_6_5
    attribute VALIDATE_STATUS
    attribute VENDOR
    attribute VERSION
    attribute VERTEX_ARRAY_BINDING
    attribute VERTEX_ATTRIB_ARRAY_BUFFER_BINDING
    attribute VERTEX_ATTRIB_ARRAY_DIVISOR
    attribute VERTEX_ATTRIB_ARRAY_ENABLED
    attribute VERTEX_ATTRIB_ARRAY_INTEGER
    attribute VERTEX_ATTRIB_ARRAY_NORMALIZED
    attribute VERTEX_ATTRIB_ARRAY_POINTER
    attribute VERTEX_ATTRIB_ARRAY_SIZE
    attribute VERTEX_ATTRIB_ARRAY_STRIDE
    attribute VERTEX_ATTRIB_ARRAY_TYPE
    attribute VERTEX_SHADER
    attribute VIEWPORT
    attribute WAIT_FAILED
    attribute ZERO
    getter canvas
    getter drawingBufferColorSpace
    getter drawingBufferHeight
    getter drawingBufferWidth
    getter unpackColorSpace
    method activeTexture
    method attachShader
    method beginQuery
    method beginTransformFeedback
    method bindAttribLocation
    method bindBuffer
    method bindBufferBase
    method bindBufferRange
    method bindFramebuffer
    method bindRenderbuffer
    method bindSampler
    method bindTexture
    method bindTransformFeedback
    method bindVertexArray
    method blendColor
    method blendEquation
    method blendEquationSeparate
    method blendFunc
    method blendFuncSeparate
    method blitFramebuffer
    method bufferData
    method bufferSubData
    method checkFramebufferStatus
    method clear
    method clearBufferfi
    method clearBufferfv
    method clearBufferiv
    method clearBufferuiv
    method clearColor
    method clearDepth
    method clearStencil
    method clientWaitSync
    method colorMask
    method compileShader
    method compressedTexImage2D
    method compressedTexImage3D
    method compressedTexSubImage2D
    method compressedTexSubImage3D
    method constructor
    method copyBufferSubData
    method copyTexImage2D
    method copyTexSubImage2D
    method copyTexSubImage3D
    method createBuffer
    method createFramebuffer
    method createProgram
    method createQuery
    method createRenderbuffer
    method createSampler
    method createShader
    method createTexture
    method createTransformFeedback
    method createVertexArray
    method cullFace
    method deleteBuffer
    method deleteFramebuffer
    method deleteProgram
    method deleteQuery
    method deleteRenderbuffer
    method deleteSampler
    method deleteShader
    method deleteSync
    method deleteTexture
    method deleteTransformFeedback
    method deleteVertexArray
    method depthFunc
    method depthMask
    method depthRange
    method detachShader
    method disable
    method disableVertexAttribArray
    method drawArrays
    method drawArraysInstanced
    method drawBuffers
    method drawElements
    method drawElementsInstanced
    method drawRangeElements
    method enable
    method enableVertexAttribArray
    method endQuery
    method endTransformFeedback
    method fenceSync
    method finish
    method flush
    method framebufferRenderbuffer
    method framebufferTexture2D
    method framebufferTextureLayer
    method frontFace
    method generateMipmap
    method getActiveAttrib
    method getActiveUniform
    method getActiveUniformBlockName
    method getActiveUniformBlockParameter
    method getActiveUniforms
    method getAttachedShaders
    method getAttribLocation
    method getBufferParameter
    method getBufferSubData
    method getContextAttributes
    method getError
    method getExtension
    method getFragDataLocation
    method getFramebufferAttachmentParameter
    method getIndexedParameter
    method getInternalformatParameter
    method getParameter
    method getProgramInfoLog
    method getProgramParameter
    method getQuery
    method getQueryParameter
    method getRenderbufferParameter
    method getSamplerParameter
    method getShaderInfoLog
    method getShaderParameter
    method getShaderPrecisionFormat
    method getShaderSource
    method getSupportedExtensions
    method getSyncParameter
    method getTexParameter
    method getTransformFeedbackVarying
    method getUniform
    method getUniformBlockIndex
    method getUniformIndices
    method getUniformLocation
    method getVertexAttrib
    method getVertexAttribOffset
    method hint
    method invalidateFramebuffer
    method invalidateSubFramebuffer
    method isBuffer
    method isContextLost
    method isEnabled
    method isFramebuffer
    method isProgram
    method isQuery
    method isRenderbuffer
    method isSampler
    method isShader
    method isSync
    method isTexture
    method isTransformFeedback
    method isVertexArray
    method lineWidth
    method linkProgram
    method makeXRCompatible
    method pauseTransformFeedback
    method pixelStorei
    method polygonOffset
    method readBuffer
    method readPixels
    method renderbufferStorage
    method renderbufferStorageMultisample
    method resumeTransformFeedback
    method sampleCoverage
    method samplerParameterf
    method samplerParameteri
    method scissor
    method shaderSource
    method stencilFunc
    method stencilFuncSeparate
    method stencilMask
    method stencilMaskSeparate
    method stencilOp
    method stencilOpSeparate
    method texImage2D
    method texImage3D
    method texParameterf
    method texParameteri
    method texStorage2D
    method texStorage3D
    method texSubImage2D
    method texSubImage3D
    method transformFeedbackVaryings
    method uniform1f
    method uniform1fv
    method uniform1i
    method uniform1iv
    method uniform1ui
    method uniform1uiv
    method uniform2f
    method uniform2fv
    method uniform2i
    method uniform2iv
    method uniform2ui
    method uniform2uiv
    method uniform3f
    method uniform3fv
    method uniform3i
    method uniform3iv
    method uniform3ui
    method uniform3uiv
    method uniform4f
    method uniform4fv
    method uniform4i
    method uniform4iv
    method uniform4ui
    method uniform4uiv
    method uniformBlockBinding
    method uniformMatrix2fv
    method uniformMatrix2x3fv
    method uniformMatrix2x4fv
    method uniformMatrix3fv
    method uniformMatrix3x2fv
    method uniformMatrix3x4fv
    method uniformMatrix4fv
    method uniformMatrix4x2fv
    method uniformMatrix4x3fv
    method useProgram
    method validateProgram
    method vertexAttrib1f
    method vertexAttrib1fv
    method vertexAttrib2f
    method vertexAttrib2fv
    method vertexAttrib3f
    method vertexAttrib3fv
    method vertexAttrib4f
    method vertexAttrib4fv
    method vertexAttribDivisor
    method vertexAttribI4i
    method vertexAttribI4iv
    method vertexAttribI4ui
    method vertexAttribI4uiv
    method vertexAttribIPointer
    method vertexAttribPointer
    method viewport
    method waitSync
    setter drawingBufferColorSpace
    setter unpackColorSpace
interface WebGLActiveInfo
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter name
    getter size
    getter type
    method constructor
interface WebGLBuffer
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface WebGLContextEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter statusMessage
    method constructor
interface WebGLFramebuffer
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface WebGLProgram
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface WebGLQuery
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface WebGLRenderbuffer
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface WebGLRenderingContext
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute ACTIVE_ATTRIBUTES
    attribute ACTIVE_TEXTURE
    attribute ACTIVE_UNIFORMS
    attribute ALIASED_LINE_WIDTH_RANGE
    attribute ALIASED_POINT_SIZE_RANGE
    attribute ALPHA
    attribute ALPHA_BITS
    attribute ALWAYS
    attribute ARRAY_BUFFER
    attribute ARRAY_BUFFER_BINDING
    attribute ATTACHED_SHADERS
    attribute BACK
    attribute BLEND
    attribute BLEND_COLOR
    attribute BLEND_DST_ALPHA
    attribute BLEND_DST_RGB
    attribute BLEND_EQUATION
    attribute BLEND_EQUATION_ALPHA
    attribute BLEND_EQUATION_RGB
    attribute BLEND_SRC_ALPHA
    attribute BLEND_SRC_RGB
    attribute BLUE_BITS
    attribute BOOL
    attribute BOOL_VEC2
    attribute BOOL_VEC3
    attribute BOOL_VEC4
    attribute BROWSER_DEFAULT_WEBGL
    attribute BUFFER_SIZE
    attribute BUFFER_USAGE
    attribute BYTE
    attribute CCW
    attribute CLAMP_TO_EDGE
    attribute COLOR_ATTACHMENT0
    attribute COLOR_BUFFER_BIT
    attribute COLOR_CLEAR_VALUE
    attribute COLOR_WRITEMASK
    attribute COMPILE_STATUS
    attribute COMPRESSED_TEXTURE_FORMATS
    attribute CONSTANT_ALPHA
    attribute CONSTANT_COLOR
    attribute CONTEXT_LOST_WEBGL
    attribute CULL_FACE
    attribute CULL_FACE_MODE
    attribute CURRENT_PROGRAM
    attribute CURRENT_VERTEX_ATTRIB
    attribute CW
    attribute DECR
    attribute DECR_WRAP
    attribute DELETE_STATUS
    attribute DEPTH_ATTACHMENT
    attribute DEPTH_BITS
    attribute DEPTH_BUFFER_BIT
    attribute DEPTH_CLEAR_VALUE
    attribute DEPTH_COMPONENT
    attribute DEPTH_COMPONENT16
    attribute DEPTH_FUNC
    attribute DEPTH_RANGE
    attribute DEPTH_STENCIL
    attribute DEPTH_STENCIL_ATTACHMENT
    attribute DEPTH_TEST
    attribute DEPTH_WRITEMASK
    attribute DITHER
    attribute DONT_CARE
    attribute DST_ALPHA
    attribute DST_COLOR
    attribute DYNAMIC_DRAW
    attribute ELEMENT_ARRAY_BUFFER
    attribute ELEMENT_ARRAY_BUFFER_BINDING
    attribute EQUAL
    attribute FASTEST
    attribute FLOAT
    attribute FLOAT_MAT2
    attribute FLOAT_MAT3
    attribute FLOAT_MAT4
    attribute FLOAT_VEC2
    attribute FLOAT_VEC3
    attribute FLOAT_VEC4
    attribute FRAGMENT_SHADER
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_ATTACHMENT_OBJECT_NAME
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_ATTACHMENT_OBJECT_TYPE
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_ATTACHMENT_TEXTURE_CUBE_MAP_FACE
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_ATTACHMENT_TEXTURE_LEVEL
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_BINDING
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_COMPLETE
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_INCOMPLETE_ATTACHMENT
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_INCOMPLETE_DIMENSIONS
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_INCOMPLETE_MISSING_ATTACHMENT
    attribute FRAMEBUFFER_UNSUPPORTED
    attribute FRONT
    attribute FRONT_AND_BACK
    attribute FRONT_FACE
    attribute FUNC_ADD
    attribute FUNC_REVERSE_SUBTRACT
    attribute FUNC_SUBTRACT
    attribute GENERATE_MIPMAP_HINT
    attribute GEQUAL
    attribute GREATER
    attribute GREEN_BITS
    attribute HIGH_FLOAT
    attribute HIGH_INT
    attribute IMPLEMENTATION_COLOR_READ_FORMAT
    attribute IMPLEMENTATION_COLOR_READ_TYPE
    attribute INCR
    attribute INCR_WRAP
    attribute INT
    attribute INT_VEC2
    attribute INT_VEC3
    attribute INT_VEC4
    attribute INVALID_ENUM
    attribute INVALID_FRAMEBUFFER_OPERATION
    attribute INVALID_OPERATION
    attribute INVALID_VALUE
    attribute INVERT
    attribute KEEP
    attribute LEQUAL
    attribute LESS
    attribute LINEAR
    attribute LINEAR_MIPMAP_LINEAR
    attribute LINEAR_MIPMAP_NEAREST
    attribute LINES
    attribute LINE_LOOP
    attribute LINE_STRIP
    attribute LINE_WIDTH
    attribute LINK_STATUS
    attribute LOW_FLOAT
    attribute LOW_INT
    attribute LUMINANCE
    attribute LUMINANCE_ALPHA
    attribute MAX_COMBINED_TEXTURE_IMAGE_UNITS
    attribute MAX_CUBE_MAP_TEXTURE_SIZE
    attribute MAX_FRAGMENT_UNIFORM_VECTORS
    attribute MAX_RENDERBUFFER_SIZE
    attribute MAX_TEXTURE_IMAGE_UNITS
    attribute MAX_TEXTURE_SIZE
    attribute MAX_VARYING_VECTORS
    attribute MAX_VERTEX_ATTRIBS
    attribute MAX_VERTEX_TEXTURE_IMAGE_UNITS
    attribute MAX_VERTEX_UNIFORM_VECTORS
    attribute MAX_VIEWPORT_DIMS
    attribute MEDIUM_FLOAT
    attribute MEDIUM_INT
    attribute MIRRORED_REPEAT
    attribute NEAREST
    attribute NEAREST_MIPMAP_LINEAR
    attribute NEAREST_MIPMAP_NEAREST
    attribute NEVER
    attribute NICEST
    attribute NONE
    attribute NOTEQUAL
    attribute NO_ERROR
    attribute ONE
    attribute ONE_MINUS_CONSTANT_ALPHA
    attribute ONE_MINUS_CONSTANT_COLOR
    attribute ONE_MINUS_DST_ALPHA
    attribute ONE_MINUS_DST_COLOR
    attribute ONE_MINUS_SRC_ALPHA
    attribute ONE_MINUS_SRC_COLOR
    attribute OUT_OF_MEMORY
    attribute PACK_ALIGNMENT
    attribute POINTS
    attribute POLYGON_OFFSET_FACTOR
    attribute POLYGON_OFFSET_FILL
    attribute POLYGON_OFFSET_UNITS
    attribute RED_BITS
    attribute RENDERBUFFER
    attribute RENDERBUFFER_ALPHA_SIZE
    attribute RENDERBUFFER_BINDING
    attribute RENDERBUFFER_BLUE_SIZE
    attribute RENDERBUFFER_DEPTH_SIZE
    attribute RENDERBUFFER_GREEN_SIZE
    attribute RENDERBUFFER_HEIGHT
    attribute RENDERBUFFER_INTERNAL_FORMAT
    attribute RENDERBUFFER_RED_SIZE
    attribute RENDERBUFFER_STENCIL_SIZE
    attribute RENDERBUFFER_WIDTH
    attribute RENDERER
    attribute REPEAT
    attribute REPLACE
    attribute RGB
    attribute RGB565
    attribute RGB5_A1
    attribute RGBA
    attribute RGBA4
    attribute SAMPLER_2D
    attribute SAMPLER_CUBE
    attribute SAMPLES
    attribute SAMPLE_ALPHA_TO_COVERAGE
    attribute SAMPLE_BUFFERS
    attribute SAMPLE_COVERAGE
    attribute SAMPLE_COVERAGE_INVERT
    attribute SAMPLE_COVERAGE_VALUE
    attribute SCISSOR_BOX
    attribute SCISSOR_TEST
    attribute SHADER_TYPE
    attribute SHADING_LANGUAGE_VERSION
    attribute SHORT
    attribute SRC_ALPHA
    attribute SRC_ALPHA_SATURATE
    attribute SRC_COLOR
    attribute STATIC_DRAW
    attribute STENCIL_ATTACHMENT
    attribute STENCIL_BACK_FAIL
    attribute STENCIL_BACK_FUNC
    attribute STENCIL_BACK_PASS_DEPTH_FAIL
    attribute STENCIL_BACK_PASS_DEPTH_PASS
    attribute STENCIL_BACK_REF
    attribute STENCIL_BACK_VALUE_MASK
    attribute STENCIL_BACK_WRITEMASK
    attribute STENCIL_BITS
    attribute STENCIL_BUFFER_BIT
    attribute STENCIL_CLEAR_VALUE
    attribute STENCIL_FAIL
    attribute STENCIL_FUNC
    attribute STENCIL_INDEX8
    attribute STENCIL_PASS_DEPTH_FAIL
    attribute STENCIL_PASS_DEPTH_PASS
    attribute STENCIL_REF
    attribute STENCIL_TEST
    attribute STENCIL_VALUE_MASK
    attribute STENCIL_WRITEMASK
    attribute STREAM_DRAW
    attribute SUBPIXEL_BITS
    attribute TEXTURE
    attribute TEXTURE0
    attribute TEXTURE1
    attribute TEXTURE10
    attribute TEXTURE11
    attribute TEXTURE12
    attribute TEXTURE13
    attribute TEXTURE14
    attribute TEXTURE15
    attribute TEXTURE16
    attribute TEXTURE17
    attribute TEXTURE18
    attribute TEXTURE19
    attribute TEXTURE2
    attribute TEXTURE20
    attribute TEXTURE21
    attribute TEXTURE22
    attribute TEXTURE23
    attribute TEXTURE24
    attribute TEXTURE25
    attribute TEXTURE26
    attribute TEXTURE27
    attribute TEXTURE28
    attribute TEXTURE29
    attribute TEXTURE3
    attribute TEXTURE30
    attribute TEXTURE31
    attribute TEXTURE4
    attribute TEXTURE5
    attribute TEXTURE6
    attribute TEXTURE7
    attribute TEXTURE8
    attribute TEXTURE9
    attribute TEXTURE_2D
    attribute TEXTURE_BINDING_2D
    attribute TEXTURE_BINDING_CUBE_MAP
    attribute TEXTURE_CUBE_MAP
    attribute TEXTURE_CUBE_MAP_NEGATIVE_X
    attribute TEXTURE_CUBE_MAP_NEGATIVE_Y
    attribute TEXTURE_CUBE_MAP_NEGATIVE_Z
    attribute TEXTURE_CUBE_MAP_POSITIVE_X
    attribute TEXTURE_CUBE_MAP_POSITIVE_Y
    attribute TEXTURE_CUBE_MAP_POSITIVE_Z
    attribute TEXTURE_MAG_FILTER
    attribute TEXTURE_MIN_FILTER
    attribute TEXTURE_WRAP_S
    attribute TEXTURE_WRAP_T
    attribute TRIANGLES
    attribute TRIANGLE_FAN
    attribute TRIANGLE_STRIP
    attribute UNPACK_ALIGNMENT
    attribute UNPACK_COLORSPACE_CONVERSION_WEBGL
    attribute UNPACK_FLIP_Y_WEBGL
    attribute UNPACK_PREMULTIPLY_ALPHA_WEBGL
    attribute UNSIGNED_BYTE
    attribute UNSIGNED_INT
    attribute UNSIGNED_SHORT
    attribute UNSIGNED_SHORT_4_4_4_4
    attribute UNSIGNED_SHORT_5_5_5_1
    attribute UNSIGNED_SHORT_5_6_5
    attribute VALIDATE_STATUS
    attribute VENDOR
    attribute VERSION
    attribute VERTEX_ATTRIB_ARRAY_BUFFER_BINDING
    attribute VERTEX_ATTRIB_ARRAY_ENABLED
    attribute VERTEX_ATTRIB_ARRAY_NORMALIZED
    attribute VERTEX_ATTRIB_ARRAY_POINTER
    attribute VERTEX_ATTRIB_ARRAY_SIZE
    attribute VERTEX_ATTRIB_ARRAY_STRIDE
    attribute VERTEX_ATTRIB_ARRAY_TYPE
    attribute VERTEX_SHADER
    attribute VIEWPORT
    attribute ZERO
    getter canvas
    getter drawingBufferColorSpace
    getter drawingBufferHeight
    getter drawingBufferWidth
    getter unpackColorSpace
    method activeTexture
    method attachShader
    method bindAttribLocation
    method bindBuffer
    method bindFramebuffer
    method bindRenderbuffer
    method bindTexture
    method blendColor
    method blendEquation
    method blendEquationSeparate
    method blendFunc
    method blendFuncSeparate
    method bufferData
    method bufferSubData
    method checkFramebufferStatus
    method clear
    method clearColor
    method clearDepth
    method clearStencil
    method colorMask
    method compileShader
    method compressedTexImage2D
    method compressedTexSubImage2D
    method constructor
    method copyTexImage2D
    method copyTexSubImage2D
    method createBuffer
    method createFramebuffer
    method createProgram
    method createRenderbuffer
    method createShader
    method createTexture
    method cullFace
    method deleteBuffer
    method deleteFramebuffer
    method deleteProgram
    method deleteRenderbuffer
    method deleteShader
    method deleteTexture
    method depthFunc
    method depthMask
    method depthRange
    method detachShader
    method disable
    method disableVertexAttribArray
    method drawArrays
    method drawElements
    method enable
    method enableVertexAttribArray
    method finish
    method flush
    method framebufferRenderbuffer
    method framebufferTexture2D
    method frontFace
    method generateMipmap
    method getActiveAttrib
    method getActiveUniform
    method getAttachedShaders
    method getAttribLocation
    method getBufferParameter
    method getContextAttributes
    method getError
    method getExtension
    method getFramebufferAttachmentParameter
    method getParameter
    method getProgramInfoLog
    method getProgramParameter
    method getRenderbufferParameter
    method getShaderInfoLog
    method getShaderParameter
    method getShaderPrecisionFormat
    method getShaderSource
    method getSupportedExtensions
    method getTexParameter
    method getUniform
    method getUniformLocation
    method getVertexAttrib
    method getVertexAttribOffset
    method hint
    method isBuffer
    method isContextLost
    method isEnabled
    method isFramebuffer
    method isProgram
    method isRenderbuffer
    method isShader
    method isTexture
    method lineWidth
    method linkProgram
    method makeXRCompatible
    method pixelStorei
    method polygonOffset
    method readPixels
    method renderbufferStorage
    method sampleCoverage
    method scissor
    method shaderSource
    method stencilFunc
    method stencilFuncSeparate
    method stencilMask
    method stencilMaskSeparate
    method stencilOp
    method stencilOpSeparate
    method texImage2D
    method texParameterf
    method texParameteri
    method texSubImage2D
    method uniform1f
    method uniform1fv
    method uniform1i
    method uniform1iv
    method uniform2f
    method uniform2fv
    method uniform2i
    method uniform2iv
    method uniform3f
    method uniform3fv
    method uniform3i
    method uniform3iv
    method uniform4f
    method uniform4fv
    method uniform4i
    method uniform4iv
    method uniformMatrix2fv
    method uniformMatrix3fv
    method uniformMatrix4fv
    method useProgram
    method validateProgram
    method vertexAttrib1f
    method vertexAttrib1fv
    method vertexAttrib2f
    method vertexAttrib2fv
    method vertexAttrib3f
    method vertexAttrib3fv
    method vertexAttrib4f
    method vertexAttrib4fv
    method vertexAttribPointer
    method viewport
    setter drawingBufferColorSpace
    setter unpackColorSpace
interface WebGLSampler
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface WebGLShader
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface WebGLShaderPrecisionFormat
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter precision
    getter rangeMax
    getter rangeMin
    method constructor
interface WebGLSync
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface WebGLTexture
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface WebGLTransformFeedback
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface WebGLUniformLocation
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface WebGLVertexArrayObject
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface WebKitCSSMatrix : DOMMatrixReadOnly
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter a
    getter b
    getter c
    getter d
    getter e
    getter f
    getter m11
    getter m12
    getter m13
    getter m14
    getter m21
    getter m22
    getter m23
    getter m24
    getter m31
    getter m32
    getter m33
    getter m34
    getter m41
    getter m42
    getter m43
    getter m44
    method constructor
    method invertSelf
    method multiplySelf
    method preMultiplySelf
    method rotateAxisAngleSelf
    method rotateFromVectorSelf
    method rotateSelf
    method scale3dSelf
    method scaleSelf
    method setMatrixValue
    method skewXSelf
    method skewYSelf
    method translateSelf
    setter a
    setter b
    setter c
    setter d
    setter e
    setter f
    setter m11
    setter m12
    setter m13
    setter m14
    setter m21
    setter m22
    setter m23
    setter m24
    setter m31
    setter m32
    setter m33
    setter m34
    setter m41
    setter m42
    setter m43
    setter m44
interface WebKitMutationObserver
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method disconnect
    method observe
    method takeRecords
interface WebSocket : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute CLOSED
    attribute CLOSING
    attribute CONNECTING
    attribute OPEN
    getter binaryType
    getter bufferedAmount
    getter extensions
    getter onclose
    getter onerror
    getter onmessage
    getter onopen
    getter protocol
    getter readyState
    getter url
    method close
    method constructor
    method send
    setter binaryType
    setter onclose
    setter onerror
    setter onmessage
    setter onopen
interface WebTransport
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter closed
    getter datagrams
    getter incomingBidirectionalStreams
    getter incomingUnidirectionalStreams
    getter ready
    method close
    method constructor
    method createBidirectionalStream
    method createUnidirectionalStream
interface WebTransportBidirectionalStream
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter readable
    getter writable
    method constructor
interface WebTransportDatagramDuplexStream
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter incomingHighWaterMark
    getter incomingMaxAge
    getter maxDatagramSize
    getter outgoingHighWaterMark
    getter outgoingMaxAge
    getter readable
    getter writable
    method constructor
    setter incomingHighWaterMark
    setter incomingMaxAge
    setter outgoingHighWaterMark
    setter outgoingMaxAge
interface WebTransportError : DOMException
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter source
    getter streamErrorCode
    method constructor
interface WheelEvent : MouseEvent
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute DOM_DELTA_LINE
    attribute DOM_DELTA_PAGE
    attribute DOM_DELTA_PIXEL
    getter deltaMode
    getter deltaX
    getter deltaY
    getter deltaZ
    getter wheelDelta
    getter wheelDeltaX
    getter wheelDeltaY
    method constructor
interface Window : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute PERSISTENT
    attribute TEMPORARY
    method constructor
interface WindowControlsOverlay : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter ongeometrychange
    getter visible
    method constructor
    method getTitlebarAreaRect
    setter ongeometrychange
interface WindowControlsOverlayGeometryChangeEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter titlebarAreaRect
    getter visible
    method constructor
interface Worker : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter onerror
    getter onmessage
    method constructor
    method postMessage
    method terminate
    setter onerror
    setter onmessage
interface Worklet
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method addModule
    method constructor
interface WritableStream
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter locked
    method abort
    method close
    method constructor
    method getWriter
interface WritableStreamDefaultController
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter signal
    method constructor
    method error
interface WritableStreamDefaultWriter
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter closed
    getter desiredSize
    getter ready
    method abort
    method close
    method constructor
    method releaseLock
    method write
interface XMLDocument : Document
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface XMLHttpRequest : XMLHttpRequestEventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute DONE
    attribute HEADERS_RECEIVED
    attribute LOADING
    attribute OPENED
    attribute UNSENT
    getter onreadystatechange
    getter readyState
    getter response
    getter responseText
    getter responseType
    getter responseURL
    getter responseXML
    getter status
    getter statusText
    getter timeout
    getter upload
    getter withCredentials
    method abort
    method constructor
    method getAllResponseHeaders
    method getResponseHeader
    method open
    method overrideMimeType
    method send
    method setRequestHeader
    setter onreadystatechange
    setter responseType
    setter timeout
    setter withCredentials
interface XMLHttpRequestEventTarget : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter onabort
    getter onerror
    getter onload
    getter onloadend
    getter onloadstart
    getter onprogress
    getter ontimeout
    method constructor
    setter onabort
    setter onerror
    setter onload
    setter onloadend
    setter onloadstart
    setter onprogress
    setter ontimeout
interface XMLHttpRequestUpload : XMLHttpRequestEventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface XMLSerializer
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method serializeToString
interface XPathEvaluator
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method createExpression
    method createNSResolver
    method evaluate
interface XPathExpression
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method evaluate
interface XPathResult
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute ANY_TYPE
    attribute ANY_UNORDERED_NODE_TYPE
    attribute BOOLEAN_TYPE
    attribute FIRST_ORDERED_NODE_TYPE
    attribute NUMBER_TYPE
    attribute ORDERED_NODE_ITERATOR_TYPE
    attribute ORDERED_NODE_SNAPSHOT_TYPE
    attribute STRING_TYPE
    attribute UNORDERED_NODE_ITERATOR_TYPE
    attribute UNORDERED_NODE_SNAPSHOT_TYPE
    getter booleanValue
    getter invalidIteratorState
    getter numberValue
    getter resultType
    getter singleNodeValue
    getter snapshotLength
    getter stringValue
    method constructor
    method iterateNext
    method snapshotItem
interface XRAnchor
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter anchorSpace
    method constructor
    method delete
interface XRAnchorSet
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter size
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method entries
    method forEach
    method has
    method keys
    method values
interface XRBoundedReferenceSpace : XRReferenceSpace
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter boundsGeometry
    method constructor
interface XRCPUDepthInformation : XRDepthInformation
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter data
    method constructor
    method getDepthInMeters
interface XRCamera
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter height
    getter width
    method constructor
interface XRDOMOverlayState
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter type
    method constructor
interface XRDepthInformation
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter height
    getter normDepthBufferFromNormView
    getter rawValueToMeters
    getter width
    method constructor
interface XRFrame
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter session
    getter trackedAnchors
    method constructor
    method createAnchor
    method getDepthInformation
    method getHitTestResults
    method getHitTestResultsForTransientInput
    method getLightEstimate
    method getPose
    method getViewerPose
interface XRHitTestResult
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method createAnchor
    method getPose
interface XRHitTestSource
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method cancel
    method constructor
interface XRInputSource
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter gamepad
    getter gripSpace
    getter handedness
    getter profiles
    getter targetRayMode
    getter targetRaySpace
    method constructor
interface XRInputSourceArray
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    method @@iterator
    method constructor
    method entries
    method forEach
    method keys
    method values
interface XRInputSourceEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter frame
    getter inputSource
    method constructor
interface XRInputSourcesChangeEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter added
    getter removed
    getter session
    method constructor
interface XRLayer : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface XRLightEstimate
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter primaryLightDirection
    getter primaryLightIntensity
    getter sphericalHarmonicsCoefficients
    method constructor
interface XRLightProbe : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter onreflectionchange
    getter probeSpace
    method constructor
    setter onreflectionchange
interface XRPose
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter emulatedPosition
    getter transform
    method constructor
interface XRRay
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter direction
    getter matrix
    getter origin
    method constructor
interface XRReferenceSpace : XRSpace
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter onreset
    method constructor
    method getOffsetReferenceSpace
    setter onreset
interface XRReferenceSpaceEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter referenceSpace
    getter transform
    method constructor
interface XRRenderState
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter baseLayer
    getter depthFar
    getter depthNear
    getter inlineVerticalFieldOfView
    method constructor
interface XRRigidTransform
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter inverse
    getter matrix
    getter orientation
    getter position
    method constructor
interface XRSession : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter depthDataFormat
    getter depthUsage
    getter domOverlayState
    getter enabledFeatures
    getter environmentBlendMode
    getter inputSources
    getter interactionMode
    getter onend
    getter oninputsourceschange
    getter onselect
    getter onselectend
    getter onselectstart
    getter onsqueeze
    getter onsqueezeend
    getter onsqueezestart
    getter onvisibilitychange
    getter preferredReflectionFormat
    getter renderState
    getter visibilityState
    method cancelAnimationFrame
    method constructor
    method end
    method requestAnimationFrame
    method requestHitTestSource
    method requestHitTestSourceForTransientInput
    method requestLightProbe
    method requestReferenceSpace
    method updateRenderState
    setter onend
    setter oninputsourceschange
    setter onselect
    setter onselectend
    setter onselectstart
    setter onsqueeze
    setter onsqueezeend
    setter onsqueezestart
    setter onvisibilitychange
interface XRSessionEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter session
    method constructor
interface XRSpace : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
interface XRSystem : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter ondevicechange
    method constructor
    method isSessionSupported
    method requestSession
    method supportsSession
    setter ondevicechange
interface XRTransientInputHitTestResult
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter inputSource
    getter results
    method constructor
interface XRTransientInputHitTestSource
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method cancel
    method constructor
interface XRView
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter camera
    getter eye
    getter isFirstPersonObserver
    getter projectionMatrix
    getter recommendedViewportScale
    getter transform
    method constructor
    method requestViewportScale
interface XRViewerPose : XRPose
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter views
    method constructor
interface XRViewport
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter height
    getter width
    getter x
    getter y
    method constructor
interface XRWebGLBinding
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method constructor
    method getCameraImage
    method getDepthInformation
    method getReflectionCubeMap
interface XRWebGLDepthInformation : XRDepthInformation
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter texture
    method constructor
interface XRWebGLLayer : XRLayer
    static method getNativeFramebufferScaleFactor
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter antialias
    getter framebuffer
    getter framebufferHeight
    getter framebufferWidth
    getter ignoreDepthValues
    method constructor
    method getViewport
interface XSLTProcessor
    attribute @@toStringTag
    method clearParameters
    method constructor
    method getParameter
    method importStylesheet
    method removeParameter
    method reset
    method setParameter
    method transformToDocument
    method transformToFragment
interface webkitMediaStream : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter active
    getter id
    getter onactive
    getter onaddtrack
    getter oninactive
    getter onremovetrack
    method addTrack
    method clone
    method constructor
    method getAudioTracks
    method getTrackById
    method getTracks
    method getVideoTracks
    method removeTrack
    setter onactive
    setter onaddtrack
    setter oninactive
    setter onremovetrack
interface webkitRTCPeerConnection : EventTarget
    static method generateCertificate
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter canTrickleIceCandidates
    getter connectionState
    getter currentLocalDescription
    getter currentRemoteDescription
    getter iceConnectionState
    getter iceGatheringState
    getter localDescription
    getter onaddstream
    getter onconnectionstatechange
    getter ondatachannel
    getter onicecandidate
    getter onicecandidateerror
    getter oniceconnectionstatechange
    getter onicegatheringstatechange
    getter onnegotiationneeded
    getter onremovestream
    getter onsignalingstatechange
    getter ontrack
    getter pendingLocalDescription
    getter pendingRemoteDescription
    getter remoteDescription
    getter sctp
    getter signalingState
    method addIceCandidate
    method addStream
    method addTrack
    method addTransceiver
    method close
    method constructor
    method createAnswer
    method createDTMFSender
    method createDataChannel
    method createOffer
    method getConfiguration
    method getLocalStreams
    method getReceivers
    method getRemoteStreams
    method getSenders
    method getStats
    method getTransceivers
    method removeStream
    method removeTrack
    method restartIce
    method setConfiguration
    method setLocalDescription
    method setRemoteDescription
    setter onaddstream
    setter onconnectionstatechange
    setter ondatachannel
    setter onicecandidate
    setter onicecandidateerror
    setter oniceconnectionstatechange
    setter onicegatheringstatechange
    setter onnegotiationneeded
    setter onremovestream
    setter onsignalingstatechange
    setter ontrack
interface webkitSpeechGrammar
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter src
    getter weight
    setter src
    setter weight
interface webkitSpeechGrammarList
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter length
    method @@iterator
    method addFromString
    method addFromUri
    method item
interface webkitSpeechRecognition : EventTarget
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter continuous
    getter grammars
    getter interimResults
    getter lang
    getter maxAlternatives
    getter onaudioend
    getter onaudiostart
    getter onend
    getter onerror
    getter onnomatch
    getter onresult
    getter onsoundend
    getter onsoundstart
    getter onspeechend
    getter onspeechstart
    getter onstart
    method abort
    method start
    method stop
    setter continuous
    setter grammars
    setter interimResults
    setter lang
    setter maxAlternatives
    setter onaudioend
    setter onaudiostart
    setter onend
    setter onerror
    setter onnomatch
    setter onresult
    setter onsoundend
    setter onsoundstart
    setter onspeechend
    setter onspeechstart
    setter onstart
interface webkitSpeechRecognitionError : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter error
    getter message
interface webkitSpeechRecognitionEvent : Event
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter resultIndex
    getter results
interface webkitURL
    static method createObjectURL
    static method revokeObjectURL
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter hash
    getter host
    getter hostname
    getter href
    getter origin
    getter password
    getter pathname
    getter port
    getter protocol
    getter search
    getter searchParams
    getter username
    method constructor
    method toJSON
    method toString
    setter hash
    setter host
    setter hostname
    setter href
    setter password
    setter pathname
    setter port
    setter protocol
    setter search
    setter username
[NAMESPACES]
namespace CSS
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter highlights
    getter paintWorklet
    method Hz
    method Q
    method ch
    method cm
    method cqb
    method cqh
    method cqi
    method cqmax
    method cqmin
    method cqw
    method deg
    method dpcm
    method dpi
    method dppx
    method dvb
    method dvh
    method dvi
    method dvmax
    method dvmin
    method dvw
    method em
    method escape
    method ex
    method fr
    method grad
    method in
    method kHz
    method lvb
    method lvh
    method lvi
    method lvmax
    method lvmin
    method lvw
    method mm
    method ms
    method number
    method pc
    method percent
    method pt
    method px
    method rad
    method registerProperty
    method rem
    method s
    method supports
    method svb
    method svh
    method svi
    method svmax
    method svmin
    method svw
    method turn
    method vb
    method vh
    method vi
    method vmax
    method vmin
    method vw
namespace GPUBufferUsage
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute COPY_DST
    attribute COPY_SRC
    attribute INDEX
    attribute INDIRECT
    attribute MAP_READ
    attribute MAP_WRITE
    attribute QUERY_RESOLVE
    attribute STORAGE
    attribute UNIFORM
    attribute VERTEX
namespace GPUColorWrite
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute ALL
    attribute ALPHA
    attribute BLUE
    attribute GREEN
    attribute RED
namespace GPUMapMode
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute READ
    attribute WRITE
namespace GPUShaderStage
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute COMPUTE
    attribute FRAGMENT
    attribute VERTEX
namespace GPUTextureUsage
    attribute @@toStringTag
    attribute COPY_DST
    attribute COPY_SRC
    attribute RENDER_ATTACHMENT
    attribute STORAGE_BINDING
    attribute TEXTURE_BINDING
namespace console
    attribute @@toStringTag
    getter memory
    method assert
    method clear
    method context
    method count
    method countReset
    method createTask
    method debug
    method dir
    method dirxml
    method error
    method group
    method groupCollapsed
    method groupEnd
    method info
    method log
    method profile
    method profileEnd
    method table
    method time
    method timeEnd
    method timeLog
    method timeStamp
    method trace
    method warn
    setter memory
[GLOBAL OBJECT]
    attribute GCController
    attribute accessibilityController
    attribute chrome
    attribute eventSender
    attribute gamepadController
    attribute globalThis
    attribute internals
    attribute propertyNamesInGlobal
    attribute testRunner
    attribute textInputController
    getter caches
    getter clientInformation
    getter closed
    getter cookieStore
    getter credentialless
    getter crossOriginIsolated
    getter crypto
    getter customElements
    getter devicePixelRatio
    getter document
    getter event
    getter external
    getter frameElement
    getter frames
    getter history
    getter indexedDB
    getter innerHeight
    getter innerWidth
    getter isSecureContext
    getter launchQueue
    getter length
    getter localStorage
    getter location
    getter locationbar
    getter menubar
    getter name
    getter navigation
    getter navigator
    getter offscreenBuffering
    getter onabort
    getter onafterprint
    getter onanimationend
    getter onanimationiteration
    getter onanimationstart
    getter onappinstalled
    getter onauxclick
    getter onbeforeinput
    getter onbeforeinstallprompt
    getter onbeforematch
    getter onbeforeprint
    getter onbeforetoggle
    getter onbeforeunload
    getter onbeforexrselect
    getter onblur
    getter oncancel
    getter oncanplay
    getter oncanplaythrough
    getter onchange
    getter onclick
    getter onclose
    getter oncontentvisibilityautostatechange
    getter oncontextlost
    getter oncontextmenu
    getter oncontextrestored
    getter oncuechange
    getter ondblclick
    getter ondevicemotion
    getter ondeviceorientation
    getter ondeviceorientationabsolute
    getter ondrag
    getter ondragend
    getter ondragenter
    getter ondragleave
    getter ondragover
    getter ondragstart
    getter ondrop
    getter ondurationchange
    getter onemptied
    getter onended
    getter onerror
    getter onfocus
    getter onformdata
    getter ongotpointercapture
    getter onhashchange
    getter oninput
    getter oninvalid
    getter onkeydown
    getter onkeypress
    getter onkeyup
    getter onlanguagechange
    getter onload
    getter onloadeddata
    getter onloadedmetadata
    getter onloadstart
    getter onlostpointercapture
    getter onmessage
    getter onmessageerror
    getter onmousedown
    getter onmouseenter
    getter onmouseleave
    getter onmousemove
    getter onmouseout
    getter onmouseover
    getter onmouseup
    getter onmousewheel
    getter onoffline
    getter ononline
    getter onpagehide
    getter onpageshow
    getter onpause
    getter onplay
    getter onplaying
    getter onpointercancel
    getter onpointerdown
    getter onpointerenter
    getter onpointerleave
    getter onpointermove
    getter onpointerout
    getter onpointerover
    getter onpointerrawupdate
    getter onpointerup
    getter onpopstate
    getter onprogress
    getter onratechange
    getter onrejectionhandled
    getter onreset
    getter onresize
    getter onscroll
    getter onscrollend
    getter onsearch
    getter onsecuritypolicyviolation
    getter onseeked
    getter onseeking
    getter onselect
    getter onselectionchange
    getter onselectstart
    getter onslotchange
    getter onstalled
    getter onstorage
    getter onsubmit
    getter onsuspend
    getter ontimeupdate
    getter ontoggle
    getter ontouchcancel
    getter ontouchend
    getter ontouchmove
    getter ontouchstart
    getter ontransitioncancel
    getter ontransitionend
    getter ontransitionrun
    getter ontransitionstart
    getter onunhandledrejection
    getter onunload
    getter onvolumechange
    getter onwaiting
    getter onwebkitanimationend
    getter onwebkitanimationiteration
    getter onwebkitanimationstart
    getter onwebkittransitionend
    getter onwheel
    getter opener
    getter origin
    getter originAgentCluster
    getter outerHeight
    getter outerWidth
    getter pageXOffset
    getter pageYOffset
    getter parent
    getter performance
    getter personalbar
    getter scheduler
    getter screen
    getter screenLeft
    getter screenTop
    getter screenX
    getter screenY
    getter scrollX
    getter scrollY
    getter scrollbars
    getter self
    getter sessionStorage
    getter speechSynthesis
    getter status
    getter statusbar
    getter styleMedia
    getter toolbar
    getter top
    getter trustedTypes
    getter visualViewport
    getter window
    method NodeFilter
    method alert
    method atob
    method blur
    method btoa
    method cancelAnimationFrame
    method cancelIdleCallback
    method captureEvents
    method clearInterval
    method clearTimeout
    method close
    method confirm
    method createImageBitmap
    method fetch
    method find
    method focus
    method gc
    method getComputedStyle
    method getScreenDetails
    method getSelection
    method matchMedia
    method moveBy
    method moveTo
    method open
    method openDatabase
    method postMessage
    method print
    method prompt
    method queryLocalFonts
    method queueMicrotask
    method releaseEvents
    method reportError
    method requestAnimationFrame
    method requestIdleCallback
    method resizeBy
    method resizeTo
    method scroll
    method scrollBy
    method scrollTo
    method setInterval
    method setTimeout
    method showDirectoryPicker
    method showOpenFilePicker
    method showSaveFilePicker
    method stop
    method structuredClone
    method webkitCancelAnimationFrame
    method webkitRequestAnimationFrame
    method webkitRequestFileSystem
    method webkitResolveLocalFileSystemURL
    setter clientInformation
    setter devicePixelRatio
    setter event
    setter external
    setter frames
    setter innerHeight
    setter innerWidth
    setter length
    setter location
    setter locationbar
    setter menubar
    setter name
    setter navigation
    setter offscreenBuffering
    setter onabort
    setter onafterprint
    setter onanimationend
    setter onanimationiteration
    setter onanimationstart
    setter onappinstalled
    setter onauxclick
    setter onbeforeinput
    setter onbeforeinstallprompt
    setter onbeforematch
    setter onbeforeprint
    setter onbeforetoggle
    setter onbeforeunload
    setter onbeforexrselect
    setter onblur
    setter oncancel
    setter oncanplay
    setter oncanplaythrough
    setter onchange
    setter onclick
    setter onclose
    setter oncontentvisibilityautostatechange
    setter oncontextlost
    setter oncontextmenu
    setter oncontextrestored
    setter oncuechange
    setter ondblclick
    setter ondevicemotion
    setter ondeviceorientation
    setter ondeviceorientationabsolute
    setter ondrag
    setter ondragend
    setter ondragenter
    setter ondragleave
    setter ondragover
    setter ondragstart
    setter ondrop
    setter ondurationchange
    setter onemptied
    setter onended
    setter onerror
    setter onfocus
    setter onformdata
    setter ongotpointercapture
    setter onhashchange
    setter oninput
    setter oninvalid
    setter onkeydown
    setter onkeypress
    setter onkeyup
    setter onlanguagechange
    setter onload
    setter onloadeddata
    setter onloadedmetadata
    setter onloadstart
    setter onlostpointercapture
    setter onmessage
    setter onmessageerror
    setter onmousedown
    setter onmouseenter
    setter onmouseleave
    setter onmousemove
    setter onmouseout
    setter onmouseover
    setter onmouseup
    setter onmousewheel
    setter onoffline
    setter ononline
    setter onpagehide
    setter onpageshow
    setter onpause
    setter onplay
    setter onplaying
    setter onpointercancel
    setter onpointerdown
    setter onpointerenter
    setter onpointerleave
    setter onpointermove
    setter onpointerout
    setter onpointerover
    setter onpointerrawupdate
    setter onpointerup
    setter onpopstate
    setter onprogress
    setter onratechange
    setter onrejectionhandled
    setter onreset
    setter onresize
    setter onscroll
    setter onscrollend
    setter onsearch
    setter onsecuritypolicyviolation
    setter onseeked
    setter onseeking
    setter onselect
    setter onselectionchange
    setter onselectstart
    setter onslotchange
    setter onstalled
    setter onstorage
    setter onsubmit
    setter onsuspend
    setter ontimeupdate
    setter ontoggle
    setter ontouchcancel
    setter ontouchend
    setter ontouchmove
    setter ontouchstart
    setter ontransitioncancel
    setter ontransitionend
    setter ontransitionrun
    setter ontransitionstart
    setter onunhandledrejection
    setter onunload
    setter onvolumechange
    setter onwaiting
    setter onwebkitanimationend
    setter onwebkitanimationiteration
    setter onwebkitanimationstart
    setter onwebkittransitionend
    setter onwheel
    setter opener
    setter origin
    setter outerHeight
    setter outerWidth
    setter pageXOffset
    setter pageYOffset
    setter parent
    setter performance
    setter personalbar
    setter scheduler
    setter screen
    setter screenLeft
    setter screenTop
    setter screenX
    setter screenY
    setter scrollX
    setter scrollY
    setter scrollbars
    setter self
    setter status
    setter statusbar
    setter toolbar
    setter visualViewport
PASS successfullyParsed is true

TEST COMPLETE

